General Guidelines

March 5, 2024

General Guidelines Overview

5

Introduction to Search Quality Rating

6

0.0 The Search Experience

6

0.1 The Purpose of Search Quality Rating

6

0.2 Raters Must Represent People in their Rating Locale

7

0.3 Browser Requirements

7

0.4 Ad Blocking Extensions

7

0.5 Internet Safety Information

7

0.6 The Role of Examples in these Guidelines

8

Part 1: Page Quality Rating Guideline

9

1.0 Introduction to Page Quality Rating

9

2.0 Understanding Webpages and Websites

9

2.1 Important Definitions

9

2.2 Understanding the Purpose of a Webpage

10

2.3 Your Money or Your Life (YMYL) Topics

11

2.4 Understanding Webpage Content

13

2.4.1 Identifying the Main Content (MC)

13

2.4.2 Identifying the Supplementary Content (SC)

14

2.4.3 Identifying Advertisements/Monetization (Ads)

14

2.4.4 Summary of the Parts of the Page

14

2.5 Understanding the Website

15

2.5.1 Finding the Homepage

15

2.5.2 Finding Who is Responsible for the Website and Who Created the Content on the Page

16

2.5.3 Finding About Us, Contact Information, and Customer Service Information

18

3.0 Overall Page Quality Rating

19

3.1 Page Quality Rating Considerations

19

3.2 Quality of the Main Content

21

3.3 Reputation of the Website and Content Creators

22

3.3.1 Reputation of the Website

22

3.3.2 Customer Reviews as Reputation Information

23

3.3.3 How to Search for Reputation Information about a Website

23

3.3.4 Reputation of the Content Creators

25

3.3.5 What to Do When You Find No Reputation Information

25

3.4 Experience, Expertise, Authoritativeness, and Trust (E-E-A-T)

26

3.4.1 YMYL Topics: Experience or Expertise?

28

4.0 Lowest Quality Pages

29

4.1 Types of Lowest Quality Pages

31

4.2 Harmful to Self or Other Individuals

32

4.3 Harmful to Specified Groups

33

4.4 Harmfully Misleading Information

34

4.5 Untrustworthy Webpages or Websites

35

Copyright 2024

1

4.5.1 Inadequate Information about the Website or Content Creator for the Purpose of the Page 35
4.5.2 Lowest E-E-A-T and Lowest Reputation of the Website or Content Creator

36

4.5.3 Deceptive Page Purpose and Deceptive MC Design

36

4.5.4 Deliberately Obstructed or Obscured MC

37

4.5.5 Suspected Malicious Behavior

38

4.6 Spammy Webpages

38

4.6.1 Cannot Determine a Purpose, No MC, Little MC, or Lowest Quality MC

39

4.6.2 Hacked, Defaced, or Spammed Pages

39

4.6.3 Auto-generated MC

39

4.6.4 Copied MC with No Added Value

40

4.6.5 How to Determine if Content is Copied

40

4.7 Examples of Lowest Quality Pages

42

5.0 Low Quality Pages

52

5.1 Lacking E-E-A-T

53

5.2 Low Quality Main Content

53

5.3 Distracting Ads/SC

55

5.4 Mildly Negative Reputation of the Website or Content Creator

55

5.5 Unsatisfying Amount of Information about the Website or Content Creator

55

5.6 Examples of Low Quality Pages

56

6.0 Medium Quality Pages

59

6.1 Types of Medium Quality Pages

60

6.2 Examples of Medium Quality Pages

60

7.0 High Quality Pages

62

7.1 High Quality Main Content

63

7.2 Positive Reputation

63

7.3 High Level of E-E-A-T

64

7.4 Examples of High Quality Pages

65

8.0 Highest Quality Pages

68

8.1 Very High Quality MC

69

8.2 Very Positive Reputation

69

8.3 Very High Level of E-E-A-T

69

8.4 Examples of Highest Quality Pages

70

9.0 Page Quality Criteria for Specific Types of Pages

76

9.1 Ratings for Encyclopedia Pages

76

9.2 Ratings for Pages with Error Messages or No MC

76

9.3 Ratings for Forums and Q&A Pages

78

10.0 Page Quality Rating Tasks

82

10.1 Instructions for Rating Page Quality Tasks

82

11.0 Page Quality Rating FAQs

83

Part 2: Understanding Search User Needs

85

12.0 Understanding Search Users, Queries, and Results

85

12.1 Important Rating Definitions and Ideas

85

12.2 Understanding the Query

86

12.3 Locale and User Location

87

12.4 Queries with an Explicit Location

88

12.5 Queries with Multiple Meanings

89
Copyright 2024

2

12.6 Query Meanings Can Change Over Time

91

12.7 Understanding User Intent

91

12.7.1 Know and Know Simple Queries

92

12.7.2 Do Queries

93

12.7.3 Website Queries

94

12.7.4 Visit-in-Person Queries and User Location

95

12.7.5 Queries with Multiple User Intents

97

12.8 Understanding Result Blocks

98

12.8.1 Web Search Result Block Examples

98

12.8.2 Special Content Result Block Examples

99

Part 3: Needs Met Rating Guideline

103

13.0 Rating Using the Needs Met Scale

103

13.1 Rating Result Blocks: Block Content and Landing Pages

104

13.1.1 Landing Page Needs Met Ratings and Block Content Needs Met Ratings

107

13.2 Fully Meets (FullyM)

108

13.2.1 Examples of Fully Meets (FullyM) Result Blocks

108

13.2.2 Examples of Queries that Cannot Have Fully Meets Results

112

13.3 Highly Meets (HM)

113

13.3.1 Examples of Highly Meets (HM) Result Blocks

113

13.4 Moderately Meets (MM)

120

13.4.1 Examples of Moderately Meets (MM) Result Blocks

120

13.5 Slightly Meets (SM)

122

13.5.1 Examples of Slightly Meets (SM) Result Blocks

122

13.6 Fails to Meet (FailsM)

124

13.6.1 Examples of Fails to Meet (FailsM) Result Blocks

124

14.0 The Relationship between Page Quality and Needs Met

130

15.0 Rating Porn, Foreign Language, and Did Not Load Results

132

15.1 Porn Flag

132

15.2 Needs Met Rating for Porn Results

132

15.2.1 Needs Met Rating for Clear Non-Porn Intent Queries

132

15.2.2 Needs Met Rating for Possible Porn Intent Queries

133

15.2.3 Needs Met Rating for Clear Porn Intent Queries

133

15.3 Reporting Illegal Images

134

15.4 Foreign Language Flag

134

15.4.1 Using the Foreign Language Flag

134

15.4.2 Needs Met Rating for Foreign Language Results

135

15.5 Did Not Load Flag

137

15.5.1 Using the Did Not Load Flag

137

15.5.2 Needs Met Rating and the Did Not Load Flag

137

15.6 Additional Flags in Some Rating Tasks

139

16.0 Many Types of Helpful Results

140

16.1 Rating Queries with Both Website and Visit-in-Person Intent

140

17.0 Specificity of Queries and Landing Pages

142

18.0 Needs Met Rating and Freshness

146

19.0 Misspelled and Mistyped Queries and Results

148

19.1 Misspelled and Mistyped Queries

148
Copyright 2024

3

19.2 Name Queries

149

20.0 Non-Fully Meets Results for URL Queries

149

21.0 Product Queries: Importance of Browsing and Researching

151

22.0 Rating Visit-in-Person Intent Queries

152

22.1 Examples Where User Location Does (and Does Not) Matter

153

23.0 Rating English Language Results in Non-English Locales

155

23.1 Examples of English (and Non-English) Results in Non-English Locales

156

24.0 Rating Dictionary and Encyclopedia Results for Different Queries

160

Appendix 1: Using the Evaluation Platform

163

25.0 Overview

163

26.0 Acquiring Tasks

163

27.0 Rating Tasks Using the Rating Interface

163

28.0 Releasing Tasks

164

29.0 Understanding the User Location on the Task Page

166

30.0 Reporting Duplicate Results in Tasks

166

30.1 Pre-Identified Duplicates

166

30.2 Rater-Identified Duplicates

167

30.3 Reporting Duplicate Results

168

31.0 Simplified Needs Met Tasks

169

Appendix 2: Guideline Change Log

170

Copyright 2024

4

General Guidelines Overview
Welcome to the Search Quality Rating Program!
As a Search Quality Rater, you will work on many different types of rating projects. The General Guidelines primarily
cover Page Quality (PQ) rating and Needs Met (NM) rating; however, the concepts are also important for many other
types of rating tasks.
For brevity, we refer to “Search Quality Raters” as “raters” in these guidelines.

Copyright 2024

5

Introduction to Search Quality Rating
0.0 The Search Experience
The World Wide Web is a vast collection of online information and content. Internet search engines provide a powerful
way to explore this online universe. There are many ways people search: people may type words into a search box in a
browser, speak to a mobile phone or assistant device, use search engine autocomplete features, etc.
People search the Internet for a variety of purposes, ranging from accomplishing a quick task to researching a topic in
depth. A search may be part of a long-term project, such as a home remodel or vacation planning. A search may be
done when someone is bored and looking for entertainment, such as a search for [funny videos]. A search may be a
single question asked during a critical moment of a person's life, such as [what are the symptoms of a heart attack?].
Search engines exist to help people find what they are looking for. To do that, search engines must provide a diverse set
of helpful, high quality search results, presented in the most helpful order.
Different types of searches need very different types of search results. Medical search results should be high quality,
authoritative, and trustworthy. Search results for [cute baby animal pictures] should be adorable. Search results for a
specific website or webpage should have that desired result at the top. Searches that have many possible meanings or
involve many perspectives need a diverse set of results that reflect the natural diversity of meanings and points of view.
People all over the world use search engines; therefore, diversity in search results is essential to satisfy the diversity of
people who use search.
Finally, search results should help people. Search results should provide authoritative and trustworthy information, not
lead people astray with misleading content. Search results should allow people to find what they're looking for, not
surprise people with unpleasant, upsetting, offensive, or disturbing content. Harmful, hateful, violent, or sexually explicit
search results are only appropriate if the person phrased their search in a way that makes it clear that they are looking for
this type of content, and there is no other reasonable interpretation of the words used in their search.

0.1

The Purpose of Search Quality Rating

As a Search Quality Rater, you will help evaluate search engine quality around the world. Good search engines give
results that are helpful for people in their own specific language and locale.
No single rating can directly impact how a particular webpage, website, or result appears in Google Search, nor can it
cause specific webpages, websites, or results to move up or down on the search results page. Using ratings to position
results on the search results page would not be feasible, as humans could never individually rate each page on the open
web.
Instead, ratings are used to measure how effectively search engines are working to deliver helpful content to people
around the world. Ratings are also used to improve search engines by providing examples of helpful and unhelpful
results for different searches.
As part of your role in the search quality rating program, it is important that you are familiar with and comfortable using a
search engine. We encourage you to be an expert in search! For example, experiment with using operators (e.g., quotes
or a hyphen) in your searches or try using advanced search options.

Copyright 2024

6

0.2

Raters Must Represent People in their Rating Locale

It is very important for you to represent people in the locale you evaluate. You must be very familiar with the task language
and location in order to represent the experience of people in your locale. If you do not have the knowledge to do this,
please inform your employer/company.
Unless your rating task indicates otherwise, your ratings should be based on the instructions and examples given in these
guidelines. Ratings should not be based on your personal opinions, preferences, religious beliefs, or political views.
Always use your best judgment and represent the cultural standards of your rating locale.

0.3

Browser Requirements

Check with your employer/company for browser requirements. You may use helpful browser add-ons or extensions, but
please do not use add-ons or extensions that interfere with or alter the user experience of the page.

0.4

Ad Blocking Extensions

Do not use add-ons or extensions that block ads for Needs Met rating or Page Quality rating. These add-ons or
extensions may cause you to give incorrect ratings. As a rater, only use an ad blocking extension or add-on if specifically
instructed to do so in the project-specific instructions.

0.5

Internet Safety Information

In the course of your work, you will visit many different webpages. Some of them may harm your computer unless you are
careful. Please do not download any executables, applications, or other potentially dangerous files, or click on any links
that you are uncomfortable with.
It is strongly recommended that you have antivirus and antispyware protection on your computer. This software
must be updated frequently or your computer will not be protected. There are many free and for-purchase
antivirus and antispyware products available on the web.
See here for a Wikipedia page on antivirus software and here for a Wikipedia page on spyware.
We suggest that you only open files with which you are comfortable. The file formats listed below are generally
considered safe if antivirus software is in place.
●
●
●
●
●

.txt (text files)
.ppt or .pptx (Microsoft PowerPoint)
.doc or .docx (Microsoft Word)
.xls or .xlsx (Microsoft Excel)
.pdf (PDF files) (Adobe Acrobat)

If you encounter a page with a warning message, such as “Warning-visiting this web site may harm your computer,” or if
your antivirus software warns you about a page, you should not try to visit the page to assign a rating.

Copyright 2024

7

0.6

The Role of Examples in these Guidelines

The rating concepts in these guidelines apply to all types of content. The examples throughout these guidelines are very
important to illustrate how the concepts defined in each section should be applied in rating tasks for different types of
webpages and different types of content.
Please view each example and keep the following in mind:
●
●
●
●

Webpages and websites change rapidly, so we use images or "snapshots" of webpages in most of our examples.
Because some types of content are difficult to view in "snapshot" form, a description of the webpage is provided
for each example.
The information in the examples was accurate at the time it was added, but content and websites may change
over time.
Some examples show pages on desktop and some show pages on mobile devices.

Copyright 2024

8

Part 1: Page Quality Rating Guideline
1.0

Introduction to Page Quality Rating

A Page Quality (PQ) rating task consists of a URL and a grid to record your observations as you explore the landing page
and the website associated with the URL. The goal of PQ rating is to evaluate how well the page achieves its purpose.
Here's what you'll need to be a successful Page Quality rater:
●
●
●

2.0

Your experience using the web as an ordinary user in your rating locale.
In-depth knowledge of these guidelines.
And most importantly—practice doing PQ rating tasks!

Understanding Webpages and Websites

Page Quality rating requires an in-depth understanding of websites. We'll start with the basics. Along the way, we'll share
important information about Page Quality rating, so please read through this section even if you are a website expert!

2.1

Important Definitions

Here are some important definitions:
A search engine is a tool to help people find or interact with content available on the Internet.
In these guidelines, the word "user" refers to a person trying to find information or accomplish a task on the Internet.
Users are people from many different backgrounds, whose experiences and needs may differ from your own: people of all
ages, genders, races, religions, political affiliations, etc.
A webpage is connected to the World Wide Web and can be viewed or "visited" using a web browser (e.g., Chrome), a
browser on your phone, or a search app. In the 1990s, webpage content was mostly text and links. Today, webpage
content includes many forms of media (such as images, videos, etc.) and functionality (such as online shopping features,
email, calculator functionality, online games, etc.).
A URL is a string of letters, numbers, and punctuation that your web browser uses to “find” and display a webpage. Page
Quality rating doesn't require you to have in-depth understanding of the structure of URLs, i.e., you don’t need to know the
difference between host, domain, etc. But if you are interested, see here to read more.
A website or site is a group of World Wide Web pages usually containing hyperlinks to each other and made available
online by an individual, company, educational institution, government, or organization. Popular websites include
Facebook, Wikipedia, Yahoo, YouTube, etc.
Note: In these guidelines, we will use the word “website” to refer to a collection of pages owned and controlled by
a single entity (individual, business, etc.). But we will also use “website” to refer to major “independent” sections
(or hosts) of some websites that were created to achieve separate purposes. For example, the Yahoo website is
organized into different sections (or hosts), such as Yahoo Finance (finance.yahoo.com), Yahoo Mail
(mail.yahoo.com), Yahoo Sports (sports.yahoo.com), etc. Each of these has its own purpose. It’s OK to refer to
each of these sections as a website; for example, the Yahoo Finance website and the Yahoo Sports website. You
may also refer to pages on Yahoo Finance or Yahoo Sports as belonging to the Yahoo website.
A homepage of a website is the main page of the site. It is usually the first page that users see when the site loads. For
example, http://www.apple.com is the homepage of the Apple site, http://www.yahoo.com is the homepage of the Yahoo
company site, and http://finance.yahoo.com is the homepage of Yahoo Finance. You can usually find the homepage of a
website by clicking on a “home” link or logo link on subpages of a website.
A website owner is the person, company, or organization who is responsible for a website.
Copyright 2024

9

A content creator is the individual(s) or entity (business, organization, etc.) who created the content on a webpage.
Important: You must be very comfortable exploring websites, both by clicking links and modifying URLs in the address
bar of your web browser. Become a website detective and explorer!

2.2

Understanding the Purpose of a Webpage

The purpose of a page is the reason or reasons why the page was created. Every page on the Internet is created for a
purpose, or for multiple purposes. Most pages are created to be helpful for people, thus having a beneficial purpose.
Some pages are created merely to make money, with little or no effort to help people. Some pages are even created to
harm users. The first step in understanding a page is figuring out its purpose.
Why is it important to determine the purpose of the page for PQ rating?
●
●
●

The goal of PQ rating is to determine how well a page achieves its purpose. In order to assign a rating, you must
understand the purpose of the page and sometimes the website.
By understanding the purpose of the page, you'll better understand what criteria are important to consider when
evaluating that particular page.
Websites and pages should be created to help people. If that is not the case, a rating of Lowest may be
warranted. More on this later.

As long as the page is created to help people, we will not consider any particular page purpose or type to be higher quality
than another. For example, encyclopedia pages are not necessarily higher quality than humor pages.
Important: There are highest quality and lowest quality webpages of all different types and purposes: shopping pages,
news pages, forum pages, video pages, pages with error messages, PDFs, images, gossip pages, humor pages,
homepages, and all other types of pages. The type of page does not determine the PQ rating—you have to understand
the purpose of the page to determine the rating.
Common helpful or beneficial page purposes include (but are not limited to):
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

To share information about a topic.
To share a personal experience, perspective, or feelings on a topic.
To share pictures, videos, or other forms of media.
To demonstrate a personal talent or skill.
To express an opinion or point of view.
To entertain.
To offer products or services.
To allow users to post questions for other users to answer.
To allow users to share files or to download software.

Here are a few examples where it is easy to understand the purpose of the page:
Type of Page

Purpose of the Page

News website homepage

To inform users about recent or important events.

Shopping page

To sell or give information about the product.

Video page

To share a cute video of a cat.

Currency converter page

To calculate equivalent amounts in different currencies.

Here is an example (OmNomNomNom Page) of a helpful page where the purpose of the page is not as obvious. At first
glance, this page may seem pointless or strange. However, it is a page from a humorous site that encourages users to
post photos with mouths drawn on them. The purpose of the page is humor or artistic expression. This page has a
helpful or beneficial purpose. Even though the About page on this website is not very helpful, the website explains itself
on its FAQ page.
Copyright 2024

10

2.3

Your Money or Your Life (YMYL) Topics

Pages on the World Wide Web are about a vast variety of topics. Some topics have a high risk of harm because content
about these topics could significantly impact the health, financial stability, or safety of people, or the welfare or well-being
of society. We call these topics “Your Money or Your Life” or YMYL.
YMYL topics may significantly impact or harm one or more of the following:
● the person who is directly viewing or using the content
● other people who are affected by the person who viewed the content
● groups of people or society affected by the actions of people who viewed the content
YMYL topics can directly and significantly impact people’s health, financial stability or safety, or the welfare or well-being
of society, because of the following reasons:
● The topic itself is harmful or dangerous. For example, there is clear and present harm directly associated with
topics related to self-harm, criminal acts, or violent extremism.
● The topic could cause harm if the content is not accurate and trustworthy. For example, mild inaccuracies
or content from less reliable sources could significantly impact someone's health, financial stability, or safety, or
impact society, for topics like: symptoms of a heart attack, how to invest money, what to do if there is an
earthquake, who can vote, or needed qualifications for obtaining a driver’s license.
To determine whether a topic is YMYL, assess the following types of harm that might occur:
● YMYL Health or Safety: Topics that could harm mental, physical, and emotional health, or any form of safety
such as physical safety or safety online.
● YMYL Financial Security: Topics that could damage a person's ability to support themselves and their families.
● YMYL Society: Topics that could negatively impact groups of people, issues of public interest, trust in public
institutions, etc.
● YMYL Other: Topics that could hurt people or negatively impact welfare or well-being of society.
It's possible to imagine a hypothetical harmful page for any non-harmful topic, such as the science behind rainbows or
shopping for pencils: for either of these topics, someone could build a page that has a malicious computer virus download.
However, for a specific topic to be YMYL, the topic itself must potentially impact people’s health, financial stability, or
safety, or the welfare or well-being of society.
Many or most topics are not YMYL and do not require a high level of accuracy or trust to prevent harm. Because YMYL
assessment is a spectrum, it may be helpful to think of topics as clear YMYL, definitely not YMYL or something in
between. Pages on clear YMYL topics require the most scrutiny for Page Quality rating.

Copyright 2024

11

Type of Topic

Information
Could significant harm result
from inaccurate information?

Advice about an activity
Could significant harm result
from poor advice?

A personal opinion
What impact could this opinion
have on other people and
society?

News about current events
Could this topic significantly
impact people and society?
For societal impact, consider
issues such as elections and
trust in public institutions that
benefit society.
Sharing on social media
Could the social media post
cause significant harm?
Could it hurt individuals?
Could it damage society if
widely shared?
Online commerce and
product reviews
Consider the product. Could
the product cause significant
harm?

Clear YMYL Topic

May be YMYL Topic

Not or Unlikely YMYL
Topic

Evacuation routes for a
tsunami

Weather forecast

Music award winners

Explanation: In most
situations, slightly inaccurate
information about the weather
forecast will not cause harm.
People often ask family
members "what's the weather
today".

Explanation: This topic is
unlikely to cause harm.

When to go to the
emergency room

How often to replace a
toothbrush

How frequently to wash
jeans

Explanation: Bad advice on
when to go to the emergency
room could cause significant
harm.

Explanation: This is a casual
health topic people commonly
discuss with friends. A slightly
imperfect suggestion is
unlikely to significantly impact
health or safety.

Explanation: This topic is
unlikely to cause harm.

Personal opinion about why
a racial group is inferior

Personal opinion about why
an exercise is inferior

Personal opinion about why
a rock band is inferior

Explanation: Pages on this
topic have been used to justify
or incite violence against
groups of people.

Explanation: While there may
be a health concern if the
exercise is extreme or risky,
most discussions of jogging vs
swimming, etc. involve
personal preference.

Explanation: This topic is
unlikely to cause harm,
although there may be strong
opinions involved!

News about ongoing
violence

News about a car accident

News about a local high
school basketball game

Explanation: Inaccurate
information on evacuation
routes could cause significant
harm to people.

Explanation: People need
accurate information to stay
safe. Society may also be
impacted by information about
ongoing violence, as citizens
and governments make civic
decisions accordingly.

Explanation: The accident
itself may have been harmful,
but there is likely little risk of
future harm from small
inaccuracies in reporting
about an incident.

Explanation: This topic is
unlikely to cause harm.

A tide pod challenge post

A hot sauce challenge

A music video

Explanation: This harmful
social media challenge was
responsible for deaths.

Explanation: While some
people may experience some
discomfort by tasting various
hot sauces, it is unlikely that
sharing about such challenges
would cause significant harm.

Explanation: This type of
content generally has little risk
of harm.

Purchasing prescription
drugs

Review of a type of car

Purchasing pencils

Explanation: While cars are
big purchases, many people
ask friends and family about
cars.

Explanation: Pencils and
other everyday items are
unlikely to cause harm.

Explanation: Prescription
drugs have the potential to
cause harm and require
purchase from licensed
pharmacies.

Copyright 2024

12

If you are having trouble deciding whether a topic is YMYL, consider the following questions:
1. Would a careful person seek out experts or highly trusted sources to prevent harm? Could even minor
inaccuracies cause harm? If yes, then the topic is likely YMYL.
2. Is the specific topic one that most people would be content with only casually consulting their friends about? If
yes, the topic is likely not YMYL.
Important: For pages about clear YMYL topics, we have very high Page Quality rating standards because low quality
pages on such topics could potentially negatively impact a person’s health, financial stability, or safety, or the welfare or
well-being of society.

2.4

Understanding Webpage Content

All of the content on a webpage can be classified as one of the following: Main Content (MC), Supplementary Content
(SC), or Advertisements/Monetization (Ads). In order to understand the purpose of a webpage and do PQ rating, you will
need to be able to distinguish among these different parts of the page.
Webpage design can be complicated, so make sure to click around and explore the page. See what kind of content is
behind the tabs and test out the interactive page features. Content behind the tabs may be considered part of the MC,
SC, or Ads, depending on what the content is.
2.4.1 Identifying the Main Content (MC)
Main Content is any part of the page that directly helps the page achieve its purpose. MC can be text, images, videos,
page features (e.g., calculators, games), and it can be content created by website users, such as videos, reviews, articles,
comments posted by users, etc. Tabs on some pages lead to even more information (e.g., customer reviews) and can
sometimes be considered part of the MC.
The MC also includes the title at the top of the page (example). Descriptive MC titles allow users to make informed
decisions about what pages to visit. Helpful titles summarize the MC on the page.
Type of Page and Purpose

MC Highlighted in Yellow

News website homepage: the purpose is to inform users about recent or important events.

MC - News Homepage

News article page: the purpose is to communicate information about an event or news topic.

MC - News Article

Store product page: the purpose is to sell or give information about the product.
● Content behind the Reviews, Shipping, and Safety Information tabs are considered to be MC - Shopping Page
part of the MC.
Currency converter page: the purpose is to calculate equivalent amounts in different currencies.

MC - Currency Converter

Blog post page: the purpose is to share music used on a TV show.

MC - Blog Post Page

Search engine homepage: the purpose is to allow users to enter a query and search the Internet.

MC - Search Engine Homepage

Bank login page: the purpose is to allow users to log in to bank online.

MC - Bank Login Page

Copyright 2024

13

2.4.2 Identifying the Supplementary Content (SC)
Supplementary Content contributes to a good user experience on the page, but does not directly help the page achieve its
purpose. SC is an important part of the user experience. One common type of SC is navigation links that allow users to
visit other parts of the website. In some cases, content behind tabs may be considered part of the SC.
Sometimes the easiest way to identify SC is to look for the parts of the page that are not MC or Ads.
Type of Page and Purpose

SC Highlighted in Blue

News article page: the purpose is to communicate information about an event or news topic.

SC - News Article

Store product page: the purpose is to sell or give information about the product.

SC - Shopping Page

Blog post page: the purpose is to share music used on a TV show.

SC - Blog Post Page

2.4.3 Identifying Advertisements/Monetization (Ads)
Ads may contribute to a good user experience. Advertisements/Monetization (Ads) is content and/or links that are
displayed for the purpose of monetizing (making money from) the page. The presence or absence of Ads is not by itself a
reason for a High or Low quality rating. Without advertising and monetization, some webpages could not exist because it
costs money to maintain a website and create high quality content.
There are many different ways to monetize a webpage, including advertisements and affiliate programs. See here for
more information on website monetization. Note that monetization on mobile pages may be more subtle than
monetization on desktop pages.
The most common type of monetization is advertisements. Ads may be labeled as "ads," "sponsored links," “sponsored
listings,” “sponsored results,” etc. Ads may change when you reload the page, and different users may see different Ads
on the same page.
Website owners can choose to display Ads on their page (such as by joining an advertising network), but they may not
always directly control the content of the Ads. However, we will consider a website responsible for the overall quality of
the Ads displayed.
Important: For the purpose of these guidelines, we will consider monetized links of any type to be “Ads.” See here for
different types of website monetization.
Type of Page and Purpose

Ads Highlighted in Red

News article page: the purpose is to communicate information about an event or news topic.

Ads - News Article

Blog post page: the purpose is to share music used on a TV show.

Ads - Blog Post Page

Store product page: the purpose is to sell or give information about the product.

No ads – Shopping Page

2.4.4 Summary of the Parts of the Page
Let's put it all together.
●
●
●

Main Content (MC) is any part of the page that directly helps the page achieve its purpose. MC is (or should be!) the
reason the page exists. The quality of the MC plays a very large role in the Page Quality rating of a webpage.
Supplementary Content (SC) is also important. SC can help a page better achieve its purpose or it can detract from
the overall experience.
Many pages have advertisements/monetization (Ads). Without advertising and monetization, some webpages
could not exist because it costs money to maintain a website and create high quality content. The presence or
absence of Ads is not by itself a reason for a High or Low quality rating.

On some pages, user reviews and comments may be considered MC, and on other pages they may be considered SC.
Use your best judgment and think about the purpose of the page.
Copyright 2024

14

Do not worry too much about identifying every little part of the page. Think about which parts of the page are the MC.
Next, look for the Ads. Anything left over can be considered SC.
Type of Page and Purpose

MC, SC, & Ads Highlighted

News article page: the purpose is to communicate information about an event or news topic.

Summary - News Article

Store product page: the purpose is to sell or give information about the product.

Summary - Shopping Page

Currency converter page: the purpose is to calculate equivalent amounts in different currencies.

Summary - Currency Converter

Blog post page: the purpose is to share music used on a TV show.

Summary - Blog Post Page

Bank login page: the purpose is to allow users to log in to the bank online.

Summary - Bank Login Page

2.5

Understanding the Website

Pages often make more sense when viewed as part of a website. Some of the criteria in Page Quality rating are based
on understanding the website that the page belongs to.
To understand a website, start by finding out who is responsible for the website and who created the content on the page
(more information provided in Section 2.5.2). Then, look for information about the website and/or content creators on the
website itself. Websites and content creators are usually very eager to tell you all about themselves!
You must also look for reputation information about the website and/or content creators. What do outside, independent
sources say about them? When there is disagreement between what the website or content creators say about
themselves and what reputable independent sources say, trust the independent sources.
2.5.1 Finding the Homepage
The homepage of a website usually contains or has links to important information about the website. Website owners
usually make it easy to get to the homepage from any page on the site.
Here's how to find the homepage of a website:
1. Examine the landing page of the URL in your PQ rating task.
2. Find and click on the link labeled with the name or logo of the website (occasionally labeled as “home" or “main"),
which usually appears at the top of the page.
Sometimes, you may be given a webpage or website that appears to have no navigation links, no homepage link, and no
logo or other means to find the homepage. Even some High or Highest quality pages lack a way to navigate to the
homepage. If you can't find a link to the homepage, modify the URL by removing everything to the right of “.com,” “.org,”
“.net,” “.fr,” etc. and refresh the page.
Occasionally, your rating task will include a URL for which there are two or more justifiable “homepage” candidates. For
example, you may not be sure whether the homepage of the URL https://finance.yahoo.com/calendar is
http://finance.yahoo.com or http://www.yahoo.com.
Important: When you have more than one homepage “candidate,” please use whichever one offers the most information
about the specific webpage in the rating task. Use your judgment. The goal is to understand the webpage and the
website(s) it is associated with, not find the one unique, correct homepage.

Copyright 2024

15

In the following examples, we have included the URL of the page to be evaluated in the rating task, as well as the URL of
its associated homepage. We have also included an image that shows where to click on the landing page to navigate to
the homepage. In the image, you will see a red box around the link or logo you would click to navigate to the homepage.
URL of the Task Page

Homepage of the Website

Where to click to get to the Homepage
Williams-Sonoma Homepage

http://www.williams-sonoma.c
http://www.williams-sonoma.com
om/products/shun-premier-7piece-knife-block-set
This “WILLIAMS-SONOMA” logo shown in the
upper center of the page is clickable and takes
users to the homepage of the website.
http://hms.harvard.edu
In this case, we will consider the Harvard Medical
School page at http://hms.harvard.edu to be the
http://hms.harvard.edu/about- homepage, rather than http://www.harvard.edu
hms/facts-figures
(which is the homepage of Harvard University).
Clicking the logo at the top of
http://hms.harvard.edu/about-hms/facts-figures
takes users to http://hms.harvard.edu, not to
http://www.harvard.edu.

Harvard Medical School Facts and Figures Page

This “Harvard Medical School” logo in the upper
left part of the page is clickable and takes users
to the homepage of the Harvard Medical School
website.

2.5.2 Finding Who is Responsible for the Website and Who Created the Content on the Page
Every page belongs to a website, and it should be clear:
●
●

Who (what individuals, company, business, organization, government agency, etc.) is responsible for the website.
Who (what individuals, company, business, organization, government agency, etc.) created the content on the
page you are evaluating. Note that for pages on websites such as forums and social media platforms, people
may post content using an alias or username in order to avoid sharing personally identifiable information online.
In these cases, the alias or username is an acceptable way to identify the content creator.

Websites are usually very clear about who is responsible for the website and who created the content on the page. There
are many reasons for this:
●
●
●
●
●

People may want to showcase their own personal talent, experiences, and perspectives.
Artists, authors, musicians, and other original content creators may want to be known and appreciated.
Commercial websites may have copyrighted material they want to protect.
Businesses and organizations may want people to know who they are and what they do.
Stores want customers to feel comfortable buying their products online.

Most websites have “contact us” or “about us” or “about” pages that provide information about who owns the site. Many
companies have an entire website or blog devoted to who they are and what they are doing, what jobs are available, etc.
Here are some examples:
●
●
●
●

Google Official Blog
Marriott Blog
Southwest Airlines Blog
Netflix Tech Blog

Copyright 2024

16

In PQ rating tasks, you will need to identify who created the MC on the page. To help you do so, the table below
describes the primary content creators for common webpage types. These types can overlap (e.g., a page may have
multiple articles, some written by individual authors or journalists and others written by the website owner).
Webpage Type

Examples

Primary Content Creator(s)

The website owner created the page
and much of the MC on the page

●

The website itself can be viewed as the
primary content creator. Website owners
may have content created on their behalf
(e.g., a small business may hire a
professional web developer to build their
website), but they are ultimately
responsible for the MC.

The page may have comments, reviews,
or other content posted by users, but the
page itself is the responsibility of the
website.

●
●

Homepage of a business
website
Introductory page on a
personal website
Product page on an online
merchant website

User comments and reviews may play a
significant role on the page. As long as
the website creates and actively
maintains the page, the website is
considered to be the primary content
creator.
The website owner created the page,
and the MC is produced by authors or
other content creators identified by
the website

●

The website decides what to publish and
is responsible for the content, but there
are distinct authors or content creators
who provide the MC on the page.

●

The webpage consists of social media
post(s) from a single account
representing an individual content
creator or organization

●
●

The social media website owner enables
people and organizations to create
accounts to post text, images, videos,
and other types of content under their
account.
The webpage is created by multiple
users engaging in discussion or
posting on social media
The website owner enables people to
post text, images, and videos or have
conversations with other users of the
website.

●

●

●
●
●

Newspaper opinion piece
written by the editorial
board
Magazine article written by
an individual journalist
Scientific journal paper
written by a team of
academic researchers

The primary content creators are the
journalists, scientists, etc. listed as
authors of the content. Often the content
creators are individuals, but an
organization, company, or institution may
also be the content creator.

Social media post
Local business profile
page on a social media
website
Video channel on a video
sharing website

The primary content creator is the person
or organization who created the account
and is posting the MC. There may be
information about the content creator on
a profile page found on the website.

Forum discussion thread
Q&A question page
Search results page on a
social media website
showing content from
many different users

The people posting are the content
creators.

Copyright 2024

User comments may be present, but they
typically are not the focus of the page.

Other user comments and reactions such
as "likes" may be considered part of the
MC.

There is no single primary content
creator, and people may be identified
only by aliases or usernames.

17

2.5.3 Finding About Us, Contact Information, and Customer Service Information
Many websites are interested in communicating with their users. There are many reasons that users might have for
contacting a website, from reporting problems such as broken pages, to asking for content removal. Many websites offer
multiple ways for users to contact the website: email addresses, phone numbers, physical addresses, web contact forms,
etc. Sometimes, this contact information is even organized by department and provides the names of individuals to
contact.

The types and amount of contact information needed depend on the type of website. Contact information and customer
service information are extremely important for websites that handle money, such as stores, banks, credit card
companies, etc. Users need a way to ask questions or get help when a problem occurs.
For shopping websites, we'll ask you to do some special checks. Look for contact information—including the store’s
policies on payment, exchanges, and returns. Sometimes this information is listed under “customer service.”
Some kinds of websites need fewer details and a smaller amount of contact information for their purpose. For example,
humor websites may not need the level of detailed contact information we would expect from online banking websites.
Occasionally, you may encounter a website or content creator with a legitimate reason for anonymity. For example,
personal websites may omit personal contact information such as an individual’s home address or phone number.
Similarly, websites with user-generated content may allow the author to identify themself with an alias or username only.
To find contact or customer service information for a website, start with the homepage. Look for a “contact us” or
“customer service” link. Explore the website if you cannot find a “contact us” page. Sometimes you will find the contact
information on a “corporate site” link or even on the company’s official social media page. Be a detective!
Note that different locales and different social media platforms may have their own conventions and standards for what
information should be available on the website. Please use your judgment and knowledge of your locale.

Copyright 2024

18

3.0

Overall Page Quality Rating

Now that you are an expert in understanding websites and webpages, here are the high-level steps of Page Quality rating:
1. Assess the true purpose of the page. If the website or page has a harmful purpose or is designed to deceive
people about its true purpose, it should be rated Lowest.
2. Assess the potential of the page to cause harm as described in these guidelines. Websites or pages that are
harmful to people or society, untrustworthy, or spammy as defined in these guidelines should be rated Lowest.
3. Otherwise, the PQ rating is based on how well the page achieves its purpose as described in these guidelines.
Important: There are harmful pages that are seemingly “official”, “expert”, or “authoritative”. Any type of website may
have pages with harmful MC, from user-uploaded videos and forum posts to harmful products sold online to pages to
pages that mimic the look of scientific papers or encyclopedia entries. All pages should be evaluated for harm—including
pages on government websites, academic institutions, reputable online stores, charities, or other types of generally helpful
websites.
On Page Quality rating tasks, you will use the Page Quality sliding scale (slider) to assign the overall PQ rating. The
slider looks like this:

You may also use the in-between ratings of Lowest+, Low+, Medium+, and High+. Please interpret the “+” as “+ ½,”
meaning that the Lowest+ rating is halfway between Lowest and Low, Low+ is halfway between Low and Medium, etc.
Identifying Lowest and Low quality pages can be the most difficult part of PQ rating. The guidance in the sections on
Lowest and Low is more extensive to help you rate accurately. High and Highest quality pages are typically easier to
identify, but be sure to apply the standards and examine the examples throughout these guidelines to help calibrate your
ratings. As might be expected, Medium quality pages are commonly found online.

3.1

Page Quality Rating Considerations

The following table summarizes the things that you should consider in Page Quality rating. Upcoming sections of these
guidelines will elaborate on these considerations and explain how they apply to pages across the PQ rating scale.
Consideration

Why it's Important for Page Quality Rating

The purpose of the page

If the page has a harmful purpose, or if it is designed to deceive people about
its true purpose or who is responsible for the content, it should be rated
Lowest.
Otherwise, PQ rating is the process of determining how well a page achieves
its purpose.

The potential for the page or website
to cause harm as described in these
guidelines

Websites or pages that are harmful to people or society, untrustworthy, or
spammy as described in these guidelines should be rated Lowest.

The topic of the page and the extent
to which that topic is YMYL

The topic of the page helps determine the standards for your overall PQ
assessment. Pages on YMYL topics have higher standards than pages on
non-YMYL topics.

Copyright 2024

19

Consideration

Why it's Important for Page Quality Rating

The type of website

Different types of websites and webpages have different expectations for PQ
rating. For example, PQ expectations may differ for:
●
●
●

Small hobbyist websites vs. large corporate websites
Websites involving financial transactions vs. websites that do not
require payment or collect personal information
Websites with content created by ordinary people on a volunteer basis
vs. websites with content created by professionals

Information provided by the website
and content creator

While the information that websites and content creators provide about
themselves isn't always trustworthy, it can provide an important starting point.

Quality of the MC

Consider the extent to which the MC is satisfying and helps the page achieve
its purpose.

The title of the page

The title of the page is considered part of the MC. Descriptive MC titles that
summarize the page allow people to make informed decisions about what
pages to visit.

The role of Ads and SC on the page

Consider the ways in which the Ads and SC contribute to how people
experience the page.
Remember: Many websites need monetization to share content with users.
The presence or absence of Ads alone is not a consideration for PQ rating.

Reputation of the website and content
creator

Research the reputation of the website and the content creator to learn about
how others view the website and who is behind it.

Trustworthiness of the page: E-E-A-T

Assess how trustworthy the page is. Experience, Expertise and
Authoritativeness can help with your assessment of Trust. Some types of
pages require a high level of Trust.

Important: These considerations overlap. For example, while examining the quality of the MC, you may notice factual
inaccuracies that lower your assessment of Trust. While conducting reputation research, you may find information about
the expertise of the content creator which increases your level of Trust. This is how PQ rating is designed to work!

Copyright 2024

20

3.2

Quality of the Main Content

The quality of the Main Content (MC) is one of the most important considerations for PQ rating. The MC plays a major
role in determining how well a page achieves its purpose.
The unifying theme for evaluating the quality of the MC is the extent to which the MC allows the page to achieve its
purpose and offers a satisfying user experience. For most pages, the quality of the MC can be determined by the amount
of effort, originality, and talent or skill that went into the creation of the content. For informational pages and pages on
YMYL topics, accuracy and consistency with well established expert consensus is important.
Effort: Consider the extent to which a human being actively worked to create satisfying content. Effort may be
direct, such as a person translating a poem from one language to another. Effort may go into designing page
functionality or building systems that power a webpage, such as the creation of a page that offers machine
translation as a service to users. On the other hand, the automatic creation of thousands of pages by running
existing freely available content through existing translation software without any oversight, manual curation,
etc., would not be considered to have human effort.
For pages like social media posts or forum discussions, the level of participation and depth of conversation is
an important part of effort. Contributions from multiple individuals on such pages can add up to a significant
amount of total human effort.
Originality: Consider the extent to which the content offers unique, original content that is not available on
other websites. If other websites have similar content, consider whether the page is the original source.
Talent or Skill: Consider the extent to which the content is created with enough talent and skill to provide a
satisfying experience for people who visit the page.
Accuracy: For informational pages, consider the extent to which the content is factually accurate. For pages
on YMYL topics, consider the extent to which the content is accurate and consistent with well-established
expert consensus.
The purpose of the page, topic of the page, and type of website all play a role in how to evaluate the quality of the MC.
For example, consistency with well-established expert consensus is important for medical advice. Skill is important for
how-to videos. Talent and originality is important for artistic expression. The amount of effort expected for a short video
shared on social media is less than for a full-length, professionally produced documentary on a streaming video website,
but both need sufficient effort to create satisfying content for their purpose. Think about what effort, originality, talent, or
skill looks like for the type of page that you are evaluating.
For each page you evaluate, spend a few minutes examining the MC before drawing a conclusion about it. Read the
article, watch the video, examine the pictures, use the calculator, play the online game, etc. Remember that MC also
includes page features and functionality, so test the page out. For example, if the page is a product page on a store
website, put at least one product in the cart to make sure the shopping cart is functioning. If the page is an online game,
try to play the game yourself. Do your best to imagine that you are someone who's very interested in the topic,
functionality, or purpose served by the page, then think about how satisfying the MC would be for that person.
High and low quality MC comes in all formats (e.g., text, audio, video, images) and all lengths (e.g., short-form videos and
full-length professional documentaries). High and low quality content also exists on all types of websites, from small
personal sites to large corporate sites, from forums and social media to websites that handle financial transactions. Think
carefully about what helps the page achieve its purpose and what makes the MC satisfying for users.

Copyright 2024

21

3.3

Reputation of the Website and Content Creators

An important part of PQ rating is understanding the reputation of the website. If the website is not the primary creator of
the MC, it’s important to research the reputation of the content creator as well.
Reputation research should be performed according to the topic of the page. For example, if the page contains medical
information, research the reputation of the website and content creator for providing medical information. It's possible for
a website to be a go-to source for one type of content (e.g., humorous videos), but an untrustworthy source for a different
type of content (e.g., financial information).
A website's or content creator's reputation can also help you understand what a website or content creator is best known
for. For example, newspapers may be known for high quality, independent investigative reporting while satire websites
may be known for their humor. An individual journalist (content creator) may be known for the clarity of their scientific
articles while a food blogger (content creator) may be known for the deliciousness of the recipes they post online.
Note that a company or person may create content on many different websites. For example, a newspaper might have
their own website, upload their video content to a video sharing website, post updates on social media, and contribute
content to a TV channel. An expert on a topic might publish research papers, have a lengthy blog, and share short
updates on social media. In these cases, you should research the underlying company or content creator.
Reputation research is especially important for detecting untrustworthy websites and content creators. Content may look
great on the surface, but reputation research can expose scams, fraud, or other signs of harm. You never know what you
will find unless you look! Therefore, reputation research is required for all PQ rating tasks.
3.3.1 Reputation of the Website
A website's reputation is based on the experience of real users and the opinions of people who are experts. Websites
may represent real companies, organizations, and other entities. Reputation research applies to both the website and the
actual company, organization, or entity that the website is representing.
Many websites are eager to tell users how great they are. Your job is to independently evaluate the Page Quality of the
website, not just accept information that appears on one or two pages of the website without further verification. Be
skeptical of claims that websites make about themselves, particularly when there is a clear conflict of interest.
Instead, look for independent reviews, references, recommendations by experts, news articles, and other sources of
credible information about the website. Look for information written by a person or organization, not statistics or other
machine-compiled information. News articles, Wikipedia articles, blog posts, magazine articles, forum discussions, and
ratings from independent organizations can all be great sources of reputation information.
For YMYL topics, the reputation of a website should be judged by what experts in the field have to say.
Recommendations from expert sources, such as professional societies, are strong evidence of a positive reputation.
Sources of reputation information will also vary according to the topic or type of company/organization/entity that the
website represents. For example, you might find that a newspaper (with an associated website) has won journalistic
awards. Prestigious awards or a history of high-quality original reporting are strong evidence of positive reputation for
news websites.
Note that some types of information about a website is not related to its reputation. For example, websites like Similarweb
have information about Internet traffic to the website, but do not provide evidence of positive or negative reputation. You
can ignore this type of information since it's not helpful for PQ rating.

Copyright 2024

22

3.3.2 Customer Reviews as Reputation Information
Customer reviews can be helpful for assessing the reputation of a store, business, or any website that offers products or
services to users. You may consider a large number of detailed, trustworthy, positive user reviews as evidence of positive
reputation for a store or business.
However, you should interpret customer reviews with care, particularly if there are only a few. Keep the following in mind:
● Be skeptical of both positive and negative reviews. Anyone can write them, including the website owner or
someone whom the store or business hires for this purpose.
● Try to find as many reviews as possible. Any store or business can get a few negative reviews—this is
completely normal and expected. Large stores and companies receive thousands of reviews, and most receive
some negative ones.
● Read the reviews because the content of the reviews matter, not just the number or star rating. Credible,
convincing reports of fraud and financial wrongdoing is evidence of extremely negative reputation. On the other
hand, a single encounter with a rude clerk or the delayed receipt of a single package should not be considered
negative reputation information. Please use your judgment.
3.3.3 How to Search for Reputation Information about a Website
Here is how to research the reputation of the website:
1. Identify the “homepage” of the website. For example, for the IBM website, ibm.com is the homepage. You may
need to identify the content creator, if it is different from that of the overall website.
2. Using ibm.com as an example, try one or more of the following searches on Google:
●
●
●
●

[ibm -site:ibm.com] - A search for IBM that excludes pages on ibm.com.
[“ibm.com” -site:ibm.com] - A search for “ibm.com” that excludes pages on ibm.com.
[ibm reviews -site:ibm.com] - A search for reviews of IBM that excludes pages on ibm.com.
[“ibm.com” reviews -site:ibm.com] - A search for reviews of “ibm.com” that excludes pages on ibm.com.

Note: When searching for reputation information, try to find sources that were not written or created by the
website or the company itself. For example, IBM might have official social media pages that it closely maintains,
which would not be considered independent sources of reputation information about the company. See here for a
Wikipedia article on identifying and using independent sources.
3. Look for articles, references, recommendations by experts, and other credible information written by people about
the website.
High quality news articles and informational articles may be good sources of reputation information. Search for
such articles. For example, try [ibm site:en.wikipedia.org]. News articles and informational articles can help you
learn about a company and may include information specific to reputation, such as awards and other forms of
recognition, or also controversies and issues. Note that some informational articles include a message warning
users that there are disagreements on some of the content, or that the content may be outdated. This may be an
indication that additional research is necessary.
4. Make sure the information you find is appropriate for judging the reputation of the website. For example,
reputation information for YMYL topics should come from sources that have expertise in the associated YMYL
topic.

Copyright 2024

23

Here are some examples of reputation information:
Website

Reputation Information About the Website
Search results for [annualcreditreport.com
-site:annualcreditreport.com]

annualcreditreport.com

Wikipedia article about annualcreditreport.com
Reputable article about annualcreditreport.com
Search results for [clevelandclinic.org]

clevelandclinic.org

Wikipedia article about clevelandclinic.org
Reputable article about the best hospitals in the
U.S.

csmonitor.com

kernel.org

Search results for [csmonitor.com
-site:csmonitor.com]
Wikipedia article about The Christian Science
Monitor

Search results for [kernel.org –site:kernel.org]
Wikipedia article about kernel.org

Search to find reputation information
Search to find reviews
Site selling children’s
jungle gym

Negative review on a business review page 1
Negative review on a business review page 2
Negative news article
Search to find reputation information

Site selling products
related to eyewear

Negative review on a business review page

Description
Positive reputation information: Users in the U.S.
can obtain free credit reports on this website by
providing their Social Security Number. Note that
the Wikipedia article tells us that
“AnnualCreditReport.com is the only federally
mandated and authorized source for obtaining a
free credit report.”
Positive reputation information: According to
Wikipedia, the Cleveland Clinic “is currently
regarded as one of the top 4 hospitals in the United
States” which can be confirmed by reputable news
articles cited in the references section. Users can
trust medical information on this website.
Positive reputation information: Notice the
highlighted section in the Wikipedia article about
The Christian Science Monitor newspaper, which
tells us that the newspaper has won several
prestigious awards. From this information, it can be
inferred that the csmonitor.com website has a
positive reputation.
Positive reputation information: According to the
Wikipedia article, “Kernel.org is a main repository of
source code for the Linux kernel, the base of the
popular Linux operating system. It makes all
versions of the source code available to all users. It
also hosts various other projects, like Google
Android. The main purpose of the site is to host a
repository for Linux kernel developers.”
Extremely negative reputation information: This
website appears to be a perfectly fine-looking store;
however, much evidence of negative reputation can
be found. The business has a very low rating on a
business review site. There is a news article about
financial fraud. There are many reviews on different
websites describing users sending money and not
receiving anything.
Extremely negative/malicious reputation
information: This website engaged in criminal
behavior such as physically threatening users.

Wikipedia article
Article about business' criminal behavior
Extremely negative reputation information:
There are many detailed negative articles on news
sites and charity watchdog sites about this
organization describing fraud and financial
mishandling.

Negative review 1
Organization serving the
hospitalized veteran
community

Negative review 2
Negative review 3
Negative review 4

Copyright 2024

24

3.3.4 Reputation of the Content Creators
For individual authors and content creators, biographical information articles and online discussions can be a good source
of reputation information. Expect to find more formal reputation information about people who create content in a
journalistic, scientific, academic, or other traditionally professional capacity, as they often need online credibility for
professional success. Educational degrees, peer validation, expert co-authors, and citations can be evidence of positive
reputation information for professionals who publish their work. Employment history can also support a positive reputation
for topics where training, credentials, or experience are important.
Influencers and other individual content creators who earn income on social media platforms often have reputation
information available as well, ranging from from biographical details or news articles to less formal reputation sources
such as comments by other influencers in their fields.
For non-professional content creators including ordinary people who post on social media or forums, you may find
informal reputation information on the page itself such as comments by other people about the creators. For example,
you may find comments or posts from other users helpful to see what other people think about a particular content creator.
3.3.5 What to Do When You Find No Reputation Information
You should expect to find some reputation information for large websites and well-known content creators. People or
businesses who create content in a professional capacity typically have some reputation information available.
However, small websites may have little or no reputation information. This is not indicative of high or low quality. Many
small local businesses or community organizations have a small “web presence” and rely on word of mouth.
Furthermore, many ordinary people participate in forum discussions or post on social media websites in a personal
capacity. People may use an alias or username to post in order to avoid sharing personally identifiable information online.
There may be no reputation information available for some individuals. A lack of reputation about people who post
personal content is neither a positive nor a negative sign in your assessment of the page.
Finally, remember that there are several important considerations involved in PQ rating (refer back to Section 3.1).
Reputation is important, but if reputation information is not available for a website or content creator, pay extra attention to
other PQ considerations, especially when assessing pages on YMYL topics.

Copyright 2024

25

3.4

Experience, Expertise, Authoritativeness, and Trust (E-E-A-T)

Experience, Expertise, Authoritativeness and Trust (E-E-A-T) are all important considerations in PQ rating. The most
important member at the center of the E-E-A-T family is Trust.

Trust: Consider the extent to which the page is accurate, honest, safe, and reliable.
The type and amount of Trust needed depends on the page, for example:
● Online stores need secure online payment systems and reliable customer service.
● Product reviews should be honest and written to help others make informed purchasing decisions (rather than
solely to sell the product).
● Informational pages on clear YMYL topics must be accurate to prevent harm to people and society.
● Social media posts on non-YMYL topics may not need a high level of Trust, such as when the purpose of the
post is to entertain its audience and the content of the post does not risk causing harm.
Experience, Expertise and Authoritativeness are important concepts that can support your assessment of Trust:
Experience: Consider the extent to which the content creator has the necessary first-hand or life experience for
the topic. Many types of pages are trustworthy and achieve their purpose well when created by people with a
wealth of personal experience. For example, which would you trust: a product review from someone who has
personally used the product or a "review" by someone who has not?
Expertise: Consider the extent to which the content creator has the necessary knowledge or skill for the topic.
Different topics require different levels and types of expertise to be trustworthy. For example, which would you
trust: home electrical rewiring advice from a skilled electrician or from an antique homes enthusiast who has no
knowledge of electrical wiring?
Authoritativeness: Consider the extent to which the content creator or the website is known as a go-to source
for the topic. While most topics do not have one official, Authoritative website or content creator, when they do,
that website or content creator is often among the most reliable and trustworthy sources. For example, a local
business profile page on social media may be the authoritative and trusted source for what is on sale now. The
official government page for getting a passport is the unique, official, and authoritative source for passport
renewal.
Experience, Expertise, and Authoritativeness may overlap for some page types and topics (for example, someone may
develop Expertise in a topic due to first-hand Experience accumulated over time), and different combinations of E-E-A
may be relevant to different topics. You should consider the purpose, type, and topic of the page, then ask yourself what
would make the content creator a trustworthy source in that context.
Copyright 2024

26

Trust is the most important member of the E-E-A-T family because untrustworthy pages have low E-E-A-T no matter how
Experienced, Expert, or Authoritative they may seem. For example, a financial scam is untrustworthy, even if the content
creator is a highly experienced and expert scammer who is considered the go-to on running scams!
When it comes to Page Quality rating, your assessment of E-E-A-T should be informed by one or more of the following:
● What the website or content creators say about themselves: Look at the "About us" page on the website or
profile page of the content creator as a starting point. Is the website or content creator a trustworthy source
based on this information?
● What others say about the website or content creators: Look for independent reviews, references, news
articles, and other sources of credible information about the website or content creators. Is there independent,
reliable evidence that the website or content creator is experienced, has expertise, is authoritative, or is otherwise
considered trustworthy? Is there independent, reliable evidence that the website or creator is untrustworthy?
● What is visible on the page, including the Main Content and sections such as reviews and comments: For
some types of pages, the level of experience and expertise may be clear from the MC itself. What evidence can
you gather from examining the MC or testing the page out? For example, you may be able to tell that someone is
an expert in hair styling by watching a video of them in action (styling someone's hair) and reading others'
comments (commenters often highlight expertise or lack thereof).
Important: The website or content creator may not be a trustworthy source if there is a clear conflict of interest. For
example, product reviews by people who own the product and share their experiences can be very valuable and
trustworthy. However, "reviews" by the product manufacturer ("Our product is great!") or "reviews" from an influencer who
is paid to promote the product are not as trustworthy due to the conflict of interest.
Finally, there are many aspects of Trust, some which are not captured by Experience, Expertise and Authoritativeness.
Please consider other aspects in your overall Trust assessment, such as customer service information for online stores or
peer-reviewed publications for academic authors. If a page is untrustworthy for any reason, it has low E-E-A-T.

Copyright 2024

27

3.4.1 YMYL Topics: Experience or Expertise?
Pages on YMYL topics can be created for a wide variety of different purposes. If the purpose of a page on a clear YMYL
topic is to give information or offer advice, a high level of expertise may be required for the page to be trustworthy.
However, sometimes pages on YMYL topics are created to share personal experiences, often regarding difficult life
challenges. People turn to each other in times of need to share their own experience, seek comfort or inspiration, and
learn from others. Factual information from experts and authoritative sources may not satisfy this need.
Pages that share first-hand life experience on clear YMYL topics may be considered to have high E-E-A-T as long as the
content is trustworthy, safe, and consistent with well-established expert consensus. In contrast, some types of YMYL
information and advice must come from experts.
Here are some examples:
YMYL Topic

Valuable sharing of life Experience

Information or advice best left to Experts

Sleep challenges when
pregnant

Safe and non-medical tips and tricks for
sleeping in the last trimester of pregnancy,
provided by people who have personally
struggled with this challenge, for example:
how to use pillows to sleep comfortably in
a position that is safe for babies

Sleep medications that are safe during
pregnancy

A sincere and respectful forum discussion
where people are describing how they're
coping with liver cancer treatment

Different treatment options for liver cancer
and the associated life expectancies
under each treatment

A humorous video from a non-expert
content creator about the frustration of
doing taxes

Instructions on how to fill out tax forms

Reviews of retirement saving services by
people with first-hand experience using
these services

Advice on how to invest for retirement:
how much to save, what kinds of assets to
invest in, how much money you will need
to retire by a specific age, etc.

A social media post by an ordinary citizen
describing why they personally believe it's
important to vote in local elections

Information about who is eligible to vote or
how to register to vote

(YMYL Health or Safety)

Liver cancer treatment
(YMYL Health or Safety)
Filling out tax forms
(YMYL Financial Security)
Saving for retirement
(YMYL Financial Security)
How to vote
(YMYL Society)

Copyright 2024

28

4.0

Lowest Quality Pages

Lowest quality pages are untrustworthy, deceptive, harmful to people or society, or have other highly undesirable
characteristics. The considerations for Lowest quality include quality of the MC, reputation, E-E-A-T, etc., but there are
special checks you will need to complete first.
As a reminder, here are the steps for doing PQ rating:
1. Assess the true purpose of the page. If the website or page has a harmful purpose or is designed to deceive
people about its true purpose, it should be rated Lowest.
2. Assess the potential of the page to cause harm as described in these guidelines. Websites or pages that are
harmful to people or society, untrustworthy, or spammy as specified in these guidelines should receive the
Lowest rating.
3. Otherwise, the PQ rating is based on how well the page achieves its purpose using the criteria outlined in these
guidelines.
Steps 1 and 2 are a screening process to quickly detect harmful content before other PQ considerations are applied.
To identify Lowest quality pages, start by considering the following:
Initial Consideration

Lowest Quality Pages

The purpose of the page

The Lowest rating is required if the page has a harmful purpose, or if
it is designed to deceive people about its true purpose or who is
responsible for the content on the page.

The potential for the page to cause harm as
described in these guidelines

The Lowest rating is required if the MC is harmful to self or others,
harmful to specified groups, or contains harmfully misleading
information.

The topic of the page, the type of website, and
the extent to which YMYL standards apply

A page on any topic or any type of website may qualify for Lowest.
Give special scrutiny to pages or websites needing a high level of
trust, such as online stores, medical websites, or news coverage of
major civic issues.

Copyright 2024

29

Next, assess the page to determine if any of the criteria for Lowest apply:
Lowest Page Quality Assessment

Any one of the following is justification for Lowest

Quality of the MC

●
●
●
●

The page is hacked, defaced, or spammed.
The page is gibberish or otherwise makes no sense.
The MC is copied, auto-generated, or otherwise created without
adequate effort.
The MC is created with so little effort, originality, talent, or skill
that the page fails to achieve its purpose.

The title of the page

The page title is extremely misleading, shocking, or exaggerated.

The role of Ads and SC on the page

The MC is deliberately obstructed or obscured due to Ads, SC,
interstitial pages, download links or other content that is beneficial to
the website owner but not necessarily the website visitor.

Information provided by the website and
content creator

A complete lack of information about who is responsible for the
website and its content for YMYL pages or other pages requiring trust.

Reputation of the website and content creator

A very negative reputation, including a reputation for malicious or
harmful behavior.

Trustworthiness of the page: E-E-A-T

●
●

The page or website is highly untrustworthy.
The lack of experience, expertise, authoritativeness or trust
causes the page to fail to achieve its purpose.

Copyright 2024

30

4.1

Types of Lowest Quality Pages

There are many different shapes and forms that Lowest pages can take. To help you keep track, the table below
organizes Lowest pages into three broad categories: Harmful, Untrustworthy, and Spammy. These categories can
overlap (e.g., pages that contain Harmfully Misleading Information are also Untrustworthy).
Type of Lowest Page

Description

Reference Section

Harmful to Self or
Other Individuals

Pages that encourage, depict, incite or directly cause physical, mental,
emotional or financial harm to self or other individuals.
Examples include:
● Detailed instructions on how to commit suicide
● Detailed, realistic, and serious instructions written with the
intent to help someone commit murder

Harmful to Specified
Groups

Pages that promote, condone, or incite violence or hatred against a
Specified Group of people (as defined in Section 4.3).
Examples include:
● Content that encourages violence or ill treatment towards a
Specified Group
● Content with extremely offensive/dehumanizing stereotypes of
a Specified Group

Harmfully Misleading
Information

Untrustworthy
Webpages

Section 4.3

Pages that misinform people in a way that could cause harm.
Examples include:
● Clearly inaccurate harmful information that can easily be
refuted by straightforward and widely accepted facts
● Harmful unsubstantiated theories/claims not grounded in any
reasonable facts or evidence

Section 4.4

Pages or websites that are deceptive or have untrustworthy
characteristics.
Examples include:
● Pages or websites with deceptive purpose or design
● Pages or websites designed to manipulate people into actions
that benefit the website or other organization while causing
harm to self, others or Specified Groups

Spammy Webpages

Section 4.2

Section 4.5

Pages with characteristics of webspam as defined in the Google
Search Essentials Guidelines and/or Section 4.6 of these guidelines.
Examples include:
● Pages deliberately created with no MC or gibberish MC
● Hacked, defaced, or spammed pages

Section 4.6

Important: There is lots of content that many people would find controversial, one-sided, off-putting, or distasteful, yet
does not meet the criteria for Lowest as described in these guidelines. Use your judgment to follow the standards
outlined throughout Section 4.0 rather than relying on personal opinions.

Copyright 2024

31

4.2

Harmful to Self or Other Individuals

Use the Lowest rating for pages with content that encourages, depicts, incites, or directly causes harm to self or other
individuals.
Harm includes physical, mental, emotional, or financial harm to people. Pages should be considered Harmful to Self or
Other Individuals if they directly attempt to harm people; encourage behavior that may result in harm; depict extremely
violent or gory content without a beneficial/educational purpose; or otherwise are severely traumatic to people who view
the page.
Pages do not have to be harmful to all people to be considered Harmful to Self or Other Individuals. Different people have
different levels of vulnerability to scams, awareness of potential dangers (e.g., dangerous feats depicted in stunt videos),
and tolerance for viewing violent/disturbing content. If there is a reasonable possibility that viewing a particular page
would cause harm to those who are most vulnerable, it should be considered harmful.
Pages created with a beneficial purpose that report on, discuss, or inform about harmful actions or events (e.g., fictional
entertainment, reputable news, education) should typically not be considered Harmful to Self or Other Individuals. For
example, advocacy aimed at drawing attention to harmful, real-world actions or events (such as a webpage describing a
protest against domestic violence) would not be considered Harmful to Self or Other Individuals.
Here are some examples of content that is vs. is not considered Harmful to Self or Other Individuals:
Harmful to Self or Other Individuals
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

NOT Harmful to Self or Other Individuals

Incitement of violence towards Other Individuals
Serious death threats or realistic-sounding threats
Exposing personal information belonging to others
with malicious intent to target them or promote
harassment towards them (i.e., “doxxing”)
How-to information that describes how to commit
violent acts in an easy-to-replicate way
Advocating for, glorifying, or trivializing violence
and atrocities, or to disparage victim(s) of
violence/atrocities
Depicting or promoting information that facilitates
or leads to serious harm to people, or discussions
that attempt to justify abuse of people
Encouraging unsafe behavior or substantially
downplays the risks of dangerous activities (e.g.,
consuming household cleaning products)
Suicide promotion or pro-anorexia content that
encourages people to engage in behavior that can
result in hospitalization or death
Health-related advice that contradicts
well-established expert consensus and could
result in serious harm or could prevent someone
from undertaking a life-saving treatment

Copyright 2024

●
●
●
●
●

Depictions of violence in an action movie
A news story about violent events
Educational content that may depict violence or
gross imagery
An explanation of scams meant to raise
awareness about them
Portrayals of dangerous activities in a manner that
discourages others from attempting the same feat
(such as by clearly explaining the risks, describing
the expertise and equipment required, etc.)

32

4.3

Harmful to Specified Groups

Use the Lowest rating for pages that promote, condone, or incite hatred against a Specified Group of people.
For the purposes of Search Quality rating, a Specified Group is a group of people that can be defined on the basis of:
● Age (e.g., older adults)
● Caste (e.g., Dalits)
● Disability (e.g., people who are blind)
● Ethnicity (e.g., Roma)
● Gender Identity and Expression (e.g., transgender people)
● Immigration Status (e.g., student visa holders)
● Nationality (e.g., Italians)
● Race (e.g., Asians)
● Religion (e.g., Christians)
● Sex/Gender (e.g., men)
● Sexual Orientation (e.g., lesbians)
● Veteran Status (e.g., Marines)
● Victims of a major violent event and their kin (e.g., victims of the Holocaust)
● Any other characteristic that is associated with systemic discrimination or marginalization (e.g., refugees, people
experiencing homelessness)
The tone of the harmful content must be either serious (i.e., not joking or satirical) or mean-spirited (i.e., with an intent to
demean or promote intolerance) to be considered Harmful to Specified Groups. Comedy or artistic expression related to
a Specified Group should not be considered harmful unless it is clearly mean-spirited or has other clear harmful impact.
Criticism of objects, philosophies, and ideas are generally not considered Harmful to Specified Groups. For example,
negative criticism of a religious doctrine should not be considered targeted at the Specified Group that follows that
religion. Remember that the content must promote, condone, or incite hatred of people to be considered Harmful to
Specified Groups.
Educational pages (e.g., definitions, research, academic papers), news stories, or other pages that have a beneficial
purpose of informing society should not be considered Harmful to Specified Groups. Similarly, historical
documents/videos that aim to capture the beliefs of different eras should not be considered Harmful to Specified Groups.
Here are some examples of content that is vs. is not considered Harmful to Specified Groups:
Harmful to Specified Groups
●
●
●
●

NOT Harmful to Specified Groups

Encourages violence or ill treatment towards a
Specified Group
Promotes intolerance by demonstrating a staunch
unwillingness to allow for the views, beliefs, or
behavior of a Specified Group
Implies that one Specified Group is superior or
inferior to another
Contains extremely offensive/dehumanizing
stereotypes of a Specified Group. Note that
stereotypes can be negative or positive.

Copyright 2024

●
●
●
●
●

A historical documentary of WWII featuring
speeches from Nazi leaders
A stand-up comedy routine that plays off of
stereotypes in a way that is not mean-spirited
A newspaper article about a hate organization
The dictionary definition of a slur
A discussion about a particular religious text and
its views on women

33

4.4

Harmfully Misleading Information

Use the Lowest rating for pages that mislead people in ways that can cause harm to people and society.
Misleading pages may have been produced with the intent to misinform people, or the content creator may believe that
the inaccurate information they are sharing is true. There is an especially high standard for accuracy on clear YMYL
topics or other topics where inaccurate information can cause harm. Be sure to research consequential facts or claims as
necessary and to the extent the task time allows.
Pages should be considered to contain Harmfully Misleading Information when they contain at least one of the following:
Type of Harmfully
Misleading Information

Description

Examples

Harmful and clearly
inaccurate information

Content that can be refuted by
straightforward and widely accepted facts

●
●

False claims that a world leader died
False dates for an election

Harmful claims that contradict
well-established expert
consensus

Content that is inconsistent with positions,
facts, or findings that are widely agreed
upon by authorities in the relevant field

●
●

Claims that lemons cure cancer
Claims that buying lottery tickets is a
guaranteed way to save for retirement

Harmful unsubstantiated
theories/claims

Content that is not grounded in any
reasonable facts or evidence, especially
those that could erode confidence in
public institutions. This includes
unsubstantiated theories that have been
thoroughly debunked or are too outlandish
to be given credence.

●

Claims that the 9-11 attacks were
planned by the U.S. government
Claims that world leaders are lizard
people

●

Harmfully Misleading Information can occur from any websites or content creators - even seemingly "expert",
"authoritative" or "official" ones. Any type of page with Harmfully Misleading Information should be rated Lowest,
regardless of the source.
However, note that some types of information are subjective, debatable, unverifiable, or inconsequential. For example,
pages should not be considered to contain Harmfully Misleading Information if they exclusively contain:
● Non-YMYL content created with a clear entertainment purpose, containing no hard claims of factual accuracy and
are not harmful to people or society. Examples include many types of fiction, satire or parody, astrology, folklore,
myths, and urban legends.
● Reviews expressing personal preferences, opinions, or value-based judgments about a product, restaurant,
book/movie/TV show, etc.
● Claims or statements that are reasonably debatable when there is not a single established correct answer or truth
(e.g., discussions about the relative effectiveness of different healthcare systems)
● Insignificant errors or inaccurate information about a trivial topic (e.g., inaccuracies in the height of a celebrity)
Pages that aim to persuade others that a certain position or perspective is correct are fairly common on the Internet.
Pages with one-sided/opinionated/controversial/polarizing content should not be considered to contain Harmfully
Misleading Information unless they could create harm to individuals or Specified Groups (as described above) and contain
clearly inaccurate information, contradict well-established expert consensus, or are not grounded by reasonable
facts/evidence.
A webpage may be considered to have Harmfully Misleading Information based on the MC or on other characteristics of
the page or information about the content creator (e.g., the title of an article is harmfully misleading, even if the article on
its own is not; a creator blatantly misrepresenting their medical credentials for a video on medical topics).
Harmfully Misleading Information can be especially hard to identify because it may require research from outside sources.
Reputable fact-checking websites can't always keep up with the volume of unsubstantiated theories/claims produced by
Copyright 2024

34

the Internet, and some theories may even claim that debunking information is inaccurate. You should attempt to find
high-quality, trustworthy sources to check accuracy and seek out the consensus of experts if you are unsure. Please
research theories and claims to the extent the task time allows. If a theory/claim seems wildly improbable and can't be
verified by independent trustworthy sources, you should consider it unsubstantiated.

4.5

Untrustworthy Webpages or Websites

The Lowest rating should be used for pages or websites you strongly suspect are engaging in deceptive or malicious
practices.
Some untrustworthy pages are created to benefit the website or organization rather than helping people. Some
untrustworthy pages may even exist to cause harm to people who engage with the page, such as scams or malicious
downloads.
Your assessment of untrustworthiness may be based on the content of the page, information about the website,
information about the content creator, and the reputation of the website or content creator.
Your assessment may also be based on a lack of critically important information. For example, any website involving
financial transactions or sensitive information should have comprehensive information about who is responsible for the
site and a way to contact the site if something goes wrong. If some aspect of a page or website makes you suspect
deception or maliciousness, please look for information about the site. If you cannot find reputation information to confirm
your suspicion, carefully explore the site.
Sometimes a single page on an unknown website in isolation may seem odd but subsequent exploration shows no
concern. However, if you see a pattern of what appears to be deception or manipulation or become concerned about your
own safety, please use the Lowest rating and leave the website immediately.
Pages with the following characteristics should be considered Untrustworthy:
● Multiple or significant factual inaccuracies on an informational page which would cause users to lose trust in the
webpage as a reliable source of information
● Inadequate information about the website or content creator for its purpose
● Lowest E-E-A-T or Lowest reputation
● Deceptive purpose, deceptive page design, or deceptive intent
● Deliberately obstructed or obscured MC
● Characteristics of scams, malicious downloads, or other harmful behavior
● Any webpage or website designed to manipulate people into actions that benefit the website or other organization
while causing harm to self, others, or Specified Groups
Important: Highly untrustworthy pages should be given the Lowest rating even if you are unable to "prove" the webpage
or site is harmful. Because many people are unwilling to use a highly untrustworthy page, an untrustworthy page or
website fails to achieve its purpose.
4.5.1 Inadequate Information about the Website or Content Creator for the Purpose of the Page
For pages that require a high level of trust, information about who created the content and who is responsible for the
content is critical.
As discussed in Section 2.5.3, we expect most websites to have some information about who (e.g., what individual,
company, business, foundation, etc.) is responsible for the website and who created the MC and some contact
information, unless there is a good reason for anonymity. As you will see in the examples below, many types of Lowest
pages such as malicious downloads and scams typically have no information or fake information about who is responsible
to prevent recourse by people who are harmed.

Copyright 2024

35

Any site that handles personal, private or sensitive data must provide extensive contact information. This includes sites
that ask users to create passwords, share personal information, or conduct financial transactions.
YMYL pages or websites that handle sensitive data with absolutely no information about the website or content creator
should be rated Lowest.
4.5.2 Lowest E-E-A-T and Lowest Reputation of the Website or Content Creator
If the E-E-A-T of a page is low enough, people cannot or should not use the MC of the page. If a page on YMYL topics is
highly inexpert, it should be considered Untrustworthy and rated Lowest.
Use the Lowest rating if the website and content creator have an extremely negative reputation, to the extent that many
people would consider the webpage or website untrustworthy.
Here are some examples originally shown in Section 3.3.3. All pages on these websites should be rated Lowest because
of the credible extremely negative or malicious reputation of these websites, making them untrustworthy.
Note: These website examples may be considered Harmful in some form as well. Sometimes reputation research
exposes information that may not meet the criteria for considering a website harmful but does cause it to be untrustworthy.
Website

Description

Site selling children’s jungle gym

Evidence of fraudulent behavior: There are many reviews on websites describing how users
sent money and did not receive anything in return. There is also a news article about this
business engaging in financial fraud.

Site selling products related to
eyewear

Evidence of criminal behavior: This website engaged in criminal behavior such as physically
threatening users.

Organization serving the
hospitalized veteran community

Evidence of fraudulent behavior: There are many detailed negative articles on news sites and
charity watchdog sites describing fraud and financial mishandling about this organization.

4.5.3 Deceptive Page Purpose and Deceptive MC Design
Pages or websites are Untrustworthy if they have a deceptive purpose. These pages or websites superficially appear to
have one purpose, but in fact exist for a different reason.
All pages with a deceptive purpose and/or deceptive MC should be rated Lowest because pages that engage in
deception are Untrustworthy.
The following list includes some common types of deceptive purpose pages. However, no list of deceptive page types will
be complete—deceptive websites continue to evolve as people and search engines figure out how they are being tricked.
●
●
●
●

●

A webpage or website that impersonates a different site (e.g., copied logo or branding of an unaffiliated site,
URL that mimics another site's name, etc.)
A non-satirical social network profile made by an impersonator
A webpage or website that looks like a news source or information page, but in fact has articles to
manipulate users in order to benefit a person, business, government, or other organization politically, monetarily,
or otherwise
A webpage claims to offer an independent review or share other information about a product, but is in
fact created to make money for the owner of the website without attempting to help users. For example,
the MC may contain intentionally misleading or inaccurate information created with the sole purpose of getting
users to click on monetized links or buy the product
A website claims to be the personal website of a celebrity, but the website is actually created to make
money for the owner of the website without the permission of the celebrity. For example, the page may
have false testimonials for a product and is created for the sole purpose of getting users to click on monetized
links or buy the product
Copyright 2024

36

●
●

A webpage with a misleading title or a title that has nothing to do with the content on the page. People
who come to the page expecting content related to the title will feel tricked or deceived
A webpage or website with deceptive website information. For example, the website may misrepresent who
owns the site, what the website purpose really is, how the content was created, how to contact the site, etc.

Another form of deception is through the design of the page. Some pages are deliberately designed to manipulate users
to take an action that will benefit the owner of the website rather than help the user.
Here are some common types of pages with deceptive MC design:
● Pages that disguise Ads as MC. Actual MC may be minimal or created to encourage users to click on the Ads.
For example, fake search pages (example) that have a list of links that look like a page of search results. If you
click on a few of the links, you will see that the page is just a collection of Ads disguised as search engine results.
A “search box” is present, but submitting a new query just gives you a different page of Ads disguised as search
results.
● Pages that disguise Ads as website navigation links. For example, fake directory pages (example) that look
like a personally curated set of helpful links, possibly with unique descriptions. In reality, the links are Ads or links
to other similar pages on the site. Sometimes the descriptions of the links are unrelated to the page.
Take a good look at the page and use your judgment. If you believe the true purpose of the page is not what it appears to
be, the page should be rated Lowest. If you believe the page was deliberately created with the primary purpose to
manipulate users to click on Ads, monetized links, questionable download links, etc., rather than to help people, the page
should be rated Lowest. If the page uses deception in any form even if not described here, the page should be rated
Lowest.
4.5.4 Deliberately Obstructed or Obscured MC
Pages are untrustworthy if the MC is deliberately obstructed or obscured due to Ads, SC, interstitial pages, download links
or other content that is beneficial to the website owner but not necessarily the website visitor. Attempts to manipulate or
coerce users away from the MC is evidence of untrustworthiness.
Here are some examples of pages with deliberately obstructed or obscured MC that should be rated Lowest:
● Ads that continue to cover the MC as the website visitor scrolls down the page. The Ads are virtually impossible
to close without clicking on the Ad
● Pop-ups that obscure the MC and cannot be closed without taking an action that benefits the website
● An interstitial page that attempts to coerce a download or click that does not benefit the website visitor
● Ads that push the MC down so far that many users would not notice the MC
● MC in white-on-white text or MC presented so that it is difficult for a human being to read
Logins or paywalls on otherwise trustworthy sites should not be considered untrustworthy, deceptive, or coercive. Many
high quality sites such as newspapers or magazines cannot exist without monetization through subscriptions and
paywalls. Some types of MC should be login protected, such as pages with personal information online banking websites
or private pages on social network websites.
MC may be inaccessible for non-deliberate or non-coercive reasons, such as content that doesn't load or content that is
unavailable in a country or region. These are not reasons for Lowest.
Use your judgment to assess whether the page is designed to manipulate or coerce users into taking actions that benefit
the website. If you are unsure, look at other pages on the same website, conduct reputation research, etc.
Important: Remember that many websites need monetization to share content with users. The presence of Ads alone is
not enough for Lowest.

Copyright 2024

37

4.5.5 Suspected Malicious Behavior
It may be difficult to prove that a page causes harm without experiencing harm yourself. For this reason, you may use the
Lowest rating if you strongly suspect a page is malicious or harmful even without having proof. Any of the following
should be considered untrustworthy:
●
●
●
●

Pages or websites that you strongly suspect are scams (see these links for more information about Internet
scams: Avoid Scams 1, Avoid Scams 2, Internet Fraud).
Pages that ask for personal information without a legitimate reason (for example, pages that ask for name,
birthdate, address, bank account, government ID number, etc.).
Pages that appear to “phish” for passwords to Facebook, Gmail, or other popular online services. See here for
information about “phishing” fraud.
Pages with links that you strongly suspect are malware downloads.

Important: Do not continue to interact with the page if you observe these characteristics.
If you do click on a link and encounter a malware warning from your browser or antivirus software (example), please do
not continue to that page. You can assume that the page is malicious for the purpose of rating and use Lowest.
Note that not all warnings your browser may display are related to malware (e.g., other types of browser warnings include
certificate acceptance requests, content filtering warnings, etc.). If you are unsure or hesitant to continue to the page for
any reason, you can release the task.

4.6

Spammy Webpages

Pages and websites should exist for the benefit of people who visit the website. There are many types of webpages that
can benefit visitors, such as online shopping or banking services, videos offering entertainment, or personal pages sharing
a perspective or experience. Some of these pages depend on advertising and monetization to maintain the website and
create high quality content while still benefiting visitors.
However, some pages are created to benefit the website owner or other organizations and with little to no attention paid to
the experience of the people who visit. When such pages use deceptive techniques to appear near the top of search
results, it may disincentivize the creation of high quality content by crowding out pages created with effort, originality,
talent, or skill that is helpful for visitors.
This section describes characteristics of spam or spam-like pages that should be rated Lowest. The Google Search
Essentials Guideline is a good reference for non-website owners to learn more about different spam techniques. If you
recognize any of these spam techniques on a page, please use the Lowest rating.
You do not need to develop spam recognition expertise or use special spam identification tools for PQ rating. Please
review this section for guidance on what to look for even without having such tools or expertise.

Copyright 2024

38

4.6.1 Cannot Determine a Purpose, No MC, Little MC, or Lowest Quality MC
All pages should be created with sufficient MC quality so that the page can achieve its purpose. However, some pages
are so lacking in MC that the purpose of the page itself is unclear or you may suspect the page is not actually created for
people.
If any of the following are true, the page should be rated Lowest:
● Despite your best efforts, the purpose of the page cannot truly be understood because the MC is gibberish or
otherwise unusable for people
● The page deliberately has no MC
● The page is deliberately created with so little MC that it fails to achieve any purpose
● The page is deliberately created with such low quality MC that it fails to achieve any purpose
4.6.2 Hacked, Defaced, or Spammed Pages
A hacked or defaced website is a site that has been modified without permission from the website owner(s).
Websites can become hacked, defaced, or filled with a large amount of distracting and unhelpful content from bad actors.
Bad actors may add unrelated MC or SC or may modify existing MC on webpages to change the purpose of the page.
These pages should be rated Lowest because they fail to achieve their original purpose. Responsible website owners
should regularly check their websites for suspicious behavior and take steps to protect users.
A common problem on forum pages or in the comments sections of pages is "spammed" comments: posts with unrelated
comments that are not intended to help other people, but rather to advertise a product or create a link to a website.
Frequently these comments are posted by a “bot” rather than a real person. If a specific page on a website has many
unrelated “spammed” comments, the page should be rated Lowest.
4.6.3 Auto-generated MC
Creating an abundance of content with little effort or originality with no editing or manual curation is often the defining
attribute of spammy websites. One way to do this is to use "auto-generated" content.
It is possible to create many pages or even entire websites by designing a basic template from which hundreds or
thousands of pages are created, sometimes using content from freely available sources (such as an RSS feed or API).
These pages are created with very little effort and have little to no editing or manual curation. There is little value when
pages repackage freely available content with little attention to no attention to the experience of people visiting the page
(see here for more information on automatically generated content).
It is often easiest to recognize auto-generated content by clicking on multiple pages on a website and observing
"templated" content. It may be difficult to recognize auto-generated content from a single page, so be sure to explore the
website if you suspect the content is templated.
Pages and websites made up of auto-generated content with no editing or manual curation, and no original content or
value added for users, should be rated Lowest.

Copyright 2024

39

4.6.4 Copied MC with No Added Value
Another way to create an abundance of content with little effort or originality is to copy content from another source. The
word “copied” refers to the practice of “scraping” content, or copying content from other non-affiliated websites without
adding any original content or value to users (see here for more information on copied or scraped content).
Any type of content may be copied: text, images, video, etc. Images may be slightly cropped or edited to avoid detection.
People may alter videos as well, or even make a video of a screen playing video! Copied content with no value added is
Lowest quality.
Sometimes content is "embedded" or included on the page from another source. There is nothing wrong with embedding
content, but the Lowest rating applies if there is no significant original content or value added on the page.
Likewise, social media posts may be reposted by an unrelated account. There is nothing wrong with reposting content,
but the Lowest rating applies if there is no value added in the form of additional content, context, or discussion.
Pages created solely with copied, embedded, or reposted content with little to no editing or manual curation are lacking in
effort and originality. As with auto-generated content, these techniques can be used to create many pages or even a
whole website. For this reason, it is often easiest to recognize pages created solely with copied, embedded, or reposted
content by exploring many pages on the site.
The Lowest rating is appropriate if all or almost all of the MC on the page (including text, images or videos) is copied,
embedded, or reposted with little or no effort, originality, talent, skill, manual curation, or added value for users. Such
pages should be rated Lowest, even if the page assigns credit for the content to another source.
All of the following are considered copied content:
● Content copied, reposted, or embedded exactly from an identifiable source. Sometimes an entire page is
copied, and sometimes just parts of the page are copied. Sometimes multiple pages are copied and then pasted
together into a single page. Content that has been copied, reposted, or embedded exactly is usually the easiest
type of copied content to identify.
● Content that is copied, but changed slightly from the original. This type of copying makes it difficult to find
the exact matching original source. Sometimes just a few words are changed, or whole sentences are changed,
or a “find and replace” modification is made, where one word is replaced with another throughout the text.
Images may be cropped or videos may be segmented into shorter clips. These types of changes are deliberately
done to make it difficult to find the original source of the content. We call this kind of content “copied with minimal
alteration.”
● Content copied from a changing source, such as a search results page or news feed. You often won't be
able to find an exact matching original source if it is a copy of “dynamic” content (content that changes frequently).
However, we will still consider this to be copied content.
Important: Licensed or syndicated content should not be considered as “copied” (see here for more on web syndication).
Examples of syndicated content in the U.S. include news articles by AP or Reuters.
4.6.5 How to Determine if Content is Copied
How do you determine whether all or most of the MC is copied? How do you identify the original source of the content?
These things can be difficult to determine, but the following steps may help.
1. Copy a sentence or phrase in the text. It may be necessary to try a few sentences or phrases from the page just
to be sure. When deciding what sentence or phrase to copy, try to find a sentence or series of several words
without punctuation, unusual characters, or suspicious words that may have replaced the original text.
2. Search on Google by pasting the sentence or phrase (surrounded by quotation marks to search for an exact
match) inside the Google search box. You may also try without quotation marks to search for more general
matches.
Copyright 2024

40

Here are some sentences and phrases from this page about “The Wizard of Oz” film and how to search for
them.
Sentence or Phrase From a Sentence
A sentence on the page:
All are convinced by Dorothy that the Wizard can help them
too

A phrase on the page:
Dorothy uses the Golden Cap to summon the Winged
Monkeys

A different phrase on the page:
revealing an old man who had journeyed to Oz from Omaha
long ago in a hot air balloon

Query to Find the Sentence or Phrase
Try the query both with and without quotation marks around
the sentence:
[ “All are convinced by Dorothy that the Wizard can help
them too” ]
[ All are convinced by Dorothy that the Wizard can help
them too ]
Try the query both with and without quotation marks around
the sentence:
[ “Dorothy uses the Golden Cap to summon the Winged
Monkeys” ]
[ Dorothy uses the Golden Cap to summon the Winged
Monkeys ]
Try the query both with and without quotation marks around
the sentence:
[ “revealing an old man who had journeyed to Oz from
Omaha long ago in a hot air balloon” ]
[revealing an old man who had journeyed to Oz from
Omaha long ago in a hot air balloon ]

3. Compare the pages you find that match the sentence or phrase. Is most of their MC the same? If so, does one
clearly come from a highly authoritative source that is known for original content creation (newspaper, magazine,
medical foundation, etc.)? Does one source seem to reasonably be the original? Does one source appear to
have the earliest publication date, verified by sources like the Wayback Machine?
Use your best judgment. Sometimes it is clear that the content is copied from somewhere, but you cannot tell what the
original source is. Other times the content found on the original source has changed enough that searches for sentences
or phrases may no longer match the original source. For example, Wikipedia articles can change dramatically over time.
Text copied from old copies may not match the current content. If you strongly suspect the page you are evaluating is not
the original source, consider it likely to be copied.
Based on this older version of a Wikipedia article about “The Wizard of Oz,” which can be found using the Internet Archive
Wayback Machine, we can confirm that the text in the table has been copied. Please note that searching for the above
sentence and phrases will not lead you to a current Wikipedia article about “The Wizard of Oz,” which demonstrates how
confirming that the MC of a page contains copied content can sometimes be difficult.
Important: The Lowest rating is appropriate if all or almost all of the MC on the page is copied with little or no effort,
manual curation, or added value for users. Such pages should be rated Lowest, even if the page assigns credit for the
content to another source.
Copyright 2024

41

4.7

Examples of Lowest Quality Pages

Webpage/Content

Lowest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation
This page appears to be an informational
article about the animal the praying mantis.
Factual inaccuracies and odd statements exist
in the section titled “Praying Mantises Are Not
Poisonous”: "In contrast to praying mollies,
which are mostly solitary creatures that avoid
human interaction, praying mollusks are more
closely related to God. There are no poisonous
snakes, and there are no venomous turtles."
Odd, factually inaccurate and/or misleading
statements:
●

Untrustworthy
Lowest: Untrustworthy

●
●

Multiple, obvious and odd factual
inaccuracies
Lowest E-E-A-T

●
●

●

The section suddenly refers to
praying mantises as “praying mollies”
- a name does that isn’t supported
through a quick web search
Praying mollusks do not exist - there
is no such animal
Statements about animals and their
relation to God are not what one
would expect on an informational
page like this
Poisonous snakes exist

It is unlikely a human author would make these
odd statements and obvious mistakes. It's
likely this content was auto-generated with no
human editing.
No matter how this content was created, the
odd statements and factual inaccuracies make
this article untrustworthy and therefore Lowest
E-E-A-T and Lowest quality.

Copyright 2024

42

Webpage/Content

Lowest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation
The page appears to be an informational
article about switching babies from breast milk
to whole milk.

Deceptive and Untrustworthy
● This page has a deceptive purpose: the
page claims to be an informational
resource for parents, but the website
terms of service state that it is published
for AI enthusiasts and is not intended for
the general public.
● The website terms of use states that
"some articles" are generated by artificial
intelligence and may have errors or be
out of date; there is no indication to
which pages this statement applies. The
information in this article is not
trustworthy and is Lowest E-E-A-T

Lowest: Lowest E-E-A-T and
Deceptive

The bottom of the page states "Our blog is
dedicated to all things related to kids and
parenting – including product reviews, news,
recipes, and more. We strive to provide
parents with the information they need in order
to make informed decisions for their families."
However, if you read the terms of service
page, you'll find a very different description of
pages on the website.
The terms of use page states "Some articles
on this website might have been partially
generated by an artificial intelligence language
model and published for experimental and
research purposes. The articles on this
website are only to be used as proof of
concept by AI enthusiasts and not intended for
general public. We do not assume any
responsibility or liability for the use or
interpretation of this content for any other
purpose than it was intended.
While we strive for accuracy and quality,
please note that the information provided may
not be entirely error-free or up-to-date. We
recommend independently verifying the
content and consulting with professionals for
specific advice or information."
Given the statements above, the articles on
this website should be considered
untrustworthy and Lowest E-E-A-T.

Lowest: Superiority of Specified
Group 1
This is the homepage of
Stormfront, a white supremacist
website. The site is known for
propagating white nationalism,
antisemitism, Holocaust denial,
white supremacy, and
Islamophobia.

Harmful to Specified Groups
●
●

Promotes, condones, or incites hatred
against a Specified Group of people
Lowest website reputation

Inciting hatred towards Specified Groups
significantly harms members of those groups
and society as whole. This page is on a YMYL
topic.
This website has an extremely negative
reputation for promoting white supremacy,
antisemitism, Holocaust denial, etc.

Copyright 2024

43

Webpage/Content

Lowest: Superiority of Specified
Group 2
This page describes a
non-scientifically backed theory
of superiority of a Specified
Group.

Lowest Quality Justification

Harmful to Specified Groups, Harmfully
Misleading Information
●
●

Promotes, condones, or incites hatred
against a Specified Group of people
Contains unsubstantiated theories/claims
not grounded in any reasonable facts or
evidence

PQ Rating and Explanation

Unsubstantiated claims about a Specified
Group significantly harms members of that
group and society as a whole. This page is on
a YMYL topic.
The purpose of the page is to promote the
view of superiority of a group of people.
This page makes unsubstantiated claims
about the role of melanin in the human body.

Lowest: Non-medical drug use
advice
This post encourages mixing an
anti-anxiety drug with a
recreational drug.

Lowest: Eating disorder
encouragement
This page has posts that
encourage people to lose weight
in unhealthy ways.

Lowest: Personal information
collection scam
Superficially, this looks like a
payment page on a merchant
site.
However, the form asks for highly
sensitive personal information
such as social security number,
drivers license number, bank
account numbers, and ATM PIN.

Harmful to Self or Other Individuals
●

Encourages, depicts, incites, or directly
causes physical, mental, emotional, or
financial harm to self or others

Harmful to Self or Other Individuals,
Harmfully Misleading Information
●
●

Encourages, depicts, incites, or directly
causes physical, mental, emotional, or
financial harm to self or others
Contains information that contradicts
well-established expert consensus

Harmful to Self or Other Individuals,
Untrustworthy
●
●

Encourages, depicts, incites, or directly
causes physical, mental, emotional, or
financial harm to self or others
Characteristics of scams, malicious
downloads, or other harmful behavior

Copyright 2024

Potentially harmful use of drugs could
significantly impact a person’s health. This is a
YMYL topic.
This post and other content on the page
encourages dangerous behavior that could
cause harm.

Eating disorders and decisions to seek
medical treatment significantly impact a
person’s health. This is a YMYL topic.
This post encourages harmful behavior.
"Proana" or pro-anorexia is a movement to
view anorexia as a lifestyle choice, not a
disease. Proana and similar "thinspiration"
pages contradict well-established expert
consensus that anorexia is a life-threatening
eating disorder.

Sharing highly sensitive personal information
could significantly impact a person’s financial
security. This page is on a YMYL topic.
While this looks like a merchant site, the true
purpose of this page is to collect information
that could be used to commit identity theft or
remove money from someone's bank account.

44

Webpage/Content

Lowest Quality Justification

Debt management significantly impacts a
person’s financial security. This is a YMYL
topic.

Untrustworthy
Lowest: Poor financial advice
and possible scam
This is an article suggesting
clicking on a link to avoid paying
debt.

Lowest: Miley Cyrus is dead
"news article" on a deceptive
website
This is a factually inaccurate
article on a website called "Now
8 News". It falsely claims Miley
Cyrus is dead.

Lowest: Crystals heal cancer
potential scam
This article explains how crystals
can be used to help cure
cancers. It has a prominent
"Shop Crystals" link at the top.

●
●
●
●

Inadequate information about the
website or content creator for the
purpose of the page
Lowest E-E-A-T
Deceptive page design
Characteristics of scams, malicious
downloads, or other harmful behavior

Harmfully Misleading Information,
Untrustworthy
●
●

Contains clearly inaccurate information
that can be refuted by straightforward
and widely accepted facts
Deceptive page design

Harmfully Misleading Information,
Untrustworthy
●
●
●

PQ Rating and Explanation

Contains unsubstantiated theories/claims
not grounded in any reasonable facts or
evidence
Contains information that contradicts
well-established expert consensus
Characteristics of scams, malicious
downloads, or other harmful behavior

Copyright 2024

This page has multiple Lowest quality
characteristics. From the MC, it is evident that
the content creator lacks financial expertise
(inconsistent with well-established expert
consensus on what to do for debt relief).
Furthermore, the page appears to be designed
to manipulate people into clicking one of
several prominent links rather than helping
people by providing sound financial advice.
The promise of debt relief is a common form of
manipulation and scam technique.

This website is designed to look like a news
site and yet has deliberate factually inaccurate
information. There is no information on who is
responsible for this content. There is no date
for the news article or date of death, which
would be a key part of any standard reporting.
This page was designed to misinform or
deceive.

Claims about cancer cures could significantly
impact people’s decisions to seek medical
treatment. This page is on a YMYL topic.
The claims made about the healing power of
crystals contradict well-established expert
scientific and medical consensus.
Selling "cures" for diseases such as cancer is
a commonly used scam technique.

45

Webpage/Content

Lowest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

Harmfully Misleading Information
Lowest: Flat earth
This is a homepage of The Flat
Earth Society, a group of people
dedicated to spreading the belief
that the earth is flat.

Lowest: Dry socket medical info
This YMYL medical site has
literally no information about who
is responsible for the content or
the website.

●
●
●

Contains unsubstantiated theories/claims
not grounded in any reasonable facts or
evidence
Contains clearly inaccurate information
that can be refuted by straightforward
and widely accepted facts
Contains information that contradicts
well-established expert consensus

The purpose of this website is promoting
misleading information. It is harmful to people
and society as it undermines trust in public
institutions.

Medical information about this dental condition
could significantly impact how people seek
dental treatment. This page is on a YMYL
topic.

Untrustworthy
●

Claims contradicting well-established scientific
consensus about the shape of the earth
undermine trust in scientific institutions such
as NOAA, the agency responsible for issuing
alerts during dangerous weather events. This
is a YMYL topic.

Inadequate information about the
website or content creator for the
purpose of the page

There is no information about who created this
website, no contact information, and no
information about the author.
Medical pages require a high level of user
trust. Because there is no information about
who owns this website and who created this
content, this is considered an untrustworthy
website.

Lowest: Merchant with little
contact info, untrustworthy
characteristics
This looks like a product listing
page on a merchant website.

Inaccurate information about shipping and
returns, deceptive use of logos and no
information about who is responsible make this
shopping site appear potentially fraudulent and
untrustworthy.

Untrustworthy
●
●

Inadequate information about the
website or content creator for the
purpose of the page
Characteristics of scams, malicious
downloads, or other harmful behavior

This page is selling Nike Air Jordan shoes.
However, there is inadequate contact
information on the contact us page for a
merchant site.
In addition, the Shipping and Returns page
has the name of another company that seems
to be unrelated. There are also official looking
logos at the bottom of the homepage, including
the Better Business Bureau logo and Google
Checkout logo, that don’t appear to be
affiliated with the website.

Copyright 2024

46

Webpage/Content

Lowest: Stomach flu lowest EAT
article
This poorly written article
describes how to cure the
stomach flu.

Lowest Quality Justification

Harmfully Misleading Information,
Untrustworthy
●
●
●

Contains information that contradicts
well-established expert consensus
Inadequate information about the
website or content creator for the
purpose of the page
Lowest E-E-A-T

PQ Rating and Explanation

Many patient hospitalizations and deaths occur
due to the flu each year. This topic could
significantly impact a person’s health. This is a
YMYL topic.
The writing is poor and the information is not
consistent with standard medical guidance. It
is clear from the content the author does not
have medical expertise.
This page should not be trusted as a medical
resource.

Lowest: Pimple popping lowest
EAT article
This very poorly written article
describes popping pimples.

Untrustworthy
●
●

Inadequate information about the
website or content creator for the
purpose of the page
Lowest E-E-A-T

The writing is extremely poor and there is
virtually no information in this article.
For example, the opening sentence is
"Popping pimples could be or could be not the
new trend of getting rid of them."
It is clear from the content that the author does
not have skin care expertise.

Harmful to Self or Other Individuals,
Untrustworthy
Lowest: Malicious merchant site
This website appears to be an
eyeglasses merchant site.

Lowest: Chicken recipes no MC
This looks like a list of chicken
recipes, but is actually a list of
links that are ads.

●
●
●

Encourages, depicts, incites, or directly
causes physical, mental, emotional, or
financial harm to self or others
Lowest E-E-A-T
Characteristics of scams, malicious
downloads, or other harmful behavior

This website swindled people and physically
threatened people who complained. These
articles on Wikipedia and the New York Times
describe the deceptive techniques used by this
website and provide other negative information
about the website and its owner.
The reputation of this website is lowest based
on reports of malicious behavior.

Untrustworthy, Spammy
●
●
●

No MC
Deceptive page design
Content created with little to no effort,
talent, skill, originality, manual curation,
or added value for users

MC should be created to benefit people who
come to the website. Pages without MC
should be considered spammy as they crowd
out and disincentivize the creation of pages
with high quality MC.
Pages with Ads that are designed to look like
MC should be considered untrustworthy.

Copyright 2024

47

Webpage/Content

Lowest: Mesothelioma deceptive
directory
This page looks like a listing of
resources about Mesothelioma, a
form of lung cancer.

Lowest Quality Justification

Untrustworthy, Spammy
●
●
●

No MC
Deceptive page design
Content created with little to no effort,
talent, skill, originality, manual curation,
or added value for users

PQ Rating and Explanation

Information about cancer could significantly
impact how people make decisions related to
medical treatment. This page is on a YMYL
topic.
This page is designed to look like a directory
page or a list of helpful resources, but every
link is an Ad. There is no MC on this page.
Pages without MC should be considered
spammy as they crowd out and disincentivize
the creation of pages with high quality MC.
Pages that disguise Ads as directory listings or
other MC should be considered untrustworthy.

Lowest: Ads deliberately obscure
MC
When you first visit the page, it
appears that there is no MC, only
Ads. If you scroll down, you will
eventually find the MC at the
bottom.

Untrustworthy
●

Deliberately obstructed or obscured MC

This page requires scrolling past so many Ads
to get to the MC that many people may stop
scrolling and leave the page before reaching
the MC.
Deliberately obscured MC to benefit the
website with no help for people visiting the
page should be considered untrustworthy.

Untrustworthy, Spammy
Lowest: Deceptive and
untrustworthy fake survey page

●

This page appears to be a
survey with the opportunity to win
an Apple MacBook Air, an
iPhone 5c, or a Galaxy S4.

●
●
●

Inadequate information about the
website or content creator for the
purpose of the page
Deceptive page design
Characteristics of scams, malicious
downloads, or other harmful behavior
Content created with little to no effort,
talent, skill, originality, manual curation,
or added value for users

This page contains a fake survey, which
appears to promise users the opportunity to
win an Apple MacBook Air, an iPhone 5c, or a
Galaxy S4.
However, there is no information about who is
responsible for the survey, even though upon
clicking, the survey asks for highly personal
information such as bank account numbers.
The message at the top of the page, “Thank
You from Goggle.com” and survey content
could mislead users to think that the survey is
affiliated with Google.
This page is deceptive and should be
considered untrustworthy.

Copyright 2024

48

Webpage/Content
Lowest: Lowest MC free credit
report
The title of the page suggests
that it may provide a credit report
from the government
"freecreditreport gov".
However, the page has gibberish
MC and spammy looking
features, such as ads or links
surrounding the meaningless
text.

Lowest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

Untrustworthy, Spammy
●
●
●
●
●
●

Extremely misleading title
Inadequate information about the
website or content creator for the
purpose of the page
Deceptive page design
Characteristics of scams, malicious
downloads, or other harmful behavior
Cannot determine any purpose, e.g.,
gibberish MC
Content created with little to no effort,
talent, skill, originality, manual curation,
or added value for users

Credit reports could significantly impact one’s
financial security. This is a YMYL topic.
The MC is gibberish. There is no beneficial
purpose of gibberish MC. The title of the page
is misleading, given the MC.
This page also has deceptive features in the
supplementary content, such as a friend
request, a prize alert, and a download button.
It is highly likely that these are ads or
malicious download links.

Prescription drugs could significantly impact a
person’s health. This is a YMYL topic.
Lowest: Buy Xanax
This is a page on the website for
the U.S. Green Building Council.
However, this page has the
words "Buy Xanax" over and
over again, along with related
words about buying Xanax and a
URL link.

Untrustworthy, Spammy
●
●

Characteristics of scams, malicious
downloads, or other harmful behavior
Content created with little to no effort,
talent, skill, originality, manual curation,
or added value for users

This specific page has been created or
modified on this organization's website in
hopes that people will click on the link to buy
the prescription drug Xanax.
This is a spam technique. Spammers hope
that the page will rank well in search results
because the website is otherwise high quality.
The words "buy xanax" are used repeatedly in
hopes that the page will show up for the
search "buy xanax".
Attempting to spam search engines and trick
people into clicking on links is highly
untrustworthy behavior.

Copyright 2024

49

Webpage/Content

Lowest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

This page has low quality MC and spammy
attributes.
The page repeats the error code "P2570"
beyond what is helpful for users- a technique
known as irrelevant keywords.

Lowest: Auto-generated car
engine code
This page is full of
supplementary content, links,
and large ads.
The MC at the top gives
information about a specific error
code P2570 and a second block
of main content in the middle
shows more information about
P2570.

Untrustworthy, Spammy
●
●

Inadequate information about the
website or content creator for the
purpose of the page
Content created with little to no effort,
talent, skill, originality, manual curation,
or added value for users

The small amount of MC is not original to the
website. Lists of error codes are available
either by purchase or by scraping.
An important fact is missing at the top "When
you check engine light came on code P2570
the reason should be ." The reason is left out this should be the most important content on
the page!
Looking at other pages on the website, it is
clear that each page is created automatically
by filling in a template from a list of error code
information. There appears to be little to no
manual editing or checking to make sure the
error code content is correctly pulled in, as
evident by the missing reason on this page.

The MC is broken up by large
ads and it is difficult to
understand due to the poor
content quality.

As with many spammy websites, there is no
information about who is responsible for this
website and no way to report problems with
the page.

Copyright 2024

50

Webpage/Content

Lowest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

The MC on this page is copied with little or no
time, effort, expertise, manual curation, or
added value for users.

Untrustworthy, Spammy
Lowest: Auto-generated bulldog
wrinkle wipes

●

This page claims to list the best
bulldog wrinkle wipes and uses
affiliate links.

●
●

Inadequate information about the
website or content creator for the
purpose of the page
Deceptive page design
Content created with little to no effort,
talent, skill, originality, manual curation,
or added value for users

Looking at the content at the bottom of the
page and exploring other pages on the
website, it is clear that each page is created
automatically using content from Amazon and
substituting different product names into a
generic template. There appears to be little to
no manual editing or curation on this page.
The true purpose of this page is to bring users
seeking information about products to this
website in hopes that they will click and order
products by clicking on Amazon affiliate links.
This website does not have a beneficial
purpose for users but rather was created to
benefit the creator of the website. Though the
website discloses that they use affiliate links,
the site offers no added value for users.
As with many deceptive websites, there is no
information about who is responsible for this
website.

Information about prescription drugs could
significantly impact a person’s health. This
page is on a YMYL topic.

Untrustworthy, Spammy
Lowest: Viagra copied content
This looks like an information
website for the drug Viagra.

●
●
●

Inadequate information about the
website or content creator for the
purpose of the page
Deceptive page design
Content created with little to no effort,
talent, skill, originality, manual curation,
or added value for users

All MC on this page is copied with little or no
time, effort, expertise, manual curation, or
added value for users. Here is the original
source.
Exploration of the pages on this website are
similarly created with little expertise or value
added for users.
The true purpose of this page is to bring users
seeking information about Viagra to this
website in hopes that they will click on the
“order now” link. The "order now" link goes to
another website and is likely monetized.
Therefore, this website does not have a
beneficial purpose for users but rather was
created to benefit another website.
As with many deceptive websites, there is no
information about who is responsible for this
website.

Copyright 2024

51

5.0

Low Quality Pages

Low quality pages do not achieve their purpose well because they are lacking in an important dimension or have a
problematic aspect. Low quality pages do not meet the standards for Lowest but may have similar though milder
undesirable characteristics.
To identify Low quality pages, start by considering the following:
Initial Consideration

Low Quality Pages

The purpose of the page

Low quality pages have a beneficial or non-harmful purpose.

The potential for the page to cause harm as
described in these guidelines

Low quality pages have either no potential to cause harm, or have
some mild potential for harm but do not meet the standards for Lowest
as described in Section 4.0.

The topic of the page, the type of website, and
the extent to which YMYL standards apply

A page on any topic or any type of website may qualify for Low.
Give special scrutiny to pages or websites needing a high level of
trust, such as online stores, medical websites, or news coverage of
major civic issues.

Next, assess the page to determine if any of the criteria for Low apply:
Low Page Quality Assessment

Any one of the following is justification for Low

Quality of the MC

MC is created without adequate effort, originality, talent, or skill
necessary to achieve the purpose of the page in a satisfying way.

The title of the page

The page title is slightly misleading, shocking, or exaggerated.

The role of Ads and SC on the page

The Ads or SC significantly distract from or interrupt the use of the MC
as described in Section 5.3.

Information provided by the website and
content creator

Unsatisfying amount of website information or information about the
content creator for the purpose of the page.
Important: For personal content shared on social media platforms or
forums, an alias or username is adequate.

Reputation of the website and content creator

A mildly negative reputation of the website or content creator.

Trustworthiness of the page: E-E-A-T

Inadequate level of E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page.

Important: Low quality pages can occur on any type of website, including academic websites, nonprofit websites,
government websites, or any other generally helpful type of website. Low quality pages may be about any topic. Pages
on YMYL topics need more scrutiny for signs of Low quality related to the MC and website/content creator because the
page could impact a person’s health, financial stability, or safety, or the welfare or well-being of society. However, for any
type of page, a single Low quality attribute is enough to use the Low quality rating.

Copyright 2024

52

5.1

Lacking E-E-A-T

Low quality pages often lack an appropriate level of E-E-A-T for the topic or purpose of the page. Here are some
examples:
●
●
●
●

The content creator lacks adequate experience, e.g. a restaurant review written by someone who has never eaten
at the restaurant
The content creator lacks adequate expertise, e.g. an article about how to skydive written by someone with no
expertise in the subject
The website or content creator is not an authoritative or trustworthy source for the topic of the page, e.g. tax form
downloads provided on a cooking website.
The page or website is not trustworthy for its purpose, e.g. a shopping page with minimal customer service
information

Important: The Low rating should be used if the page lacks appropriate E-E-A-T for its purpose. No other considerations
such as positive reputation or the type of website can overcome a lack of E-E-A-T for the topic or purpose of the page.

5.2

Low Quality Main Content

MC is Low quality if it is created without adequate effort, originality, talent, or skill necessary to achieve the purpose of the
page in a satisfying way. Mild inaccuracies on informational pages are evidence of Low quality. However, if the page has
harmful inaccuracies or so many inaccuracies that it feels untrustworthy, the Lowest rating is justified.
There are many possible ways for MC to be Low quality, and Low effort is important to recognize in all forms.
While you may not have experience creating MC on webpages, think about your experience with something similar:
writing reports for school. Here are some common shortcuts that students often take to save effort when writing a report:
●
●
●
●
●
●

Producing content quickly with little attention to important aspects such as clarity or organization.
Saving time by summarizing or paraphrasing from other readily available sources.
Filling a report with large pictures or other distracting content rather than clear, helpful information on the topic.
Using images from other sources (magazines, stock image websites, etc.) to avoid having to create pictures or
diagrams to support the material in the report.
Using commonly known facts that require little research, for example: “Argentina is a country. People live in
Argentina. Argentina has borders.”
Using "filler" content, for example: "Pandas eat bamboo. Pandas eat a lot of bamboo. Bamboo is the best food for
a Panda bear."

Of course, webpages are more diverse than school reports, but you will recognize some of these same techniques on
pages you encounter. Some Low quality content is created with little effort in order to have content to support
monetization rather than creating original or effortful content to help users. "Filler" content may also be added, especially
at the top of the page, forcing users to scroll down to reach the MC.

Copyright 2024

53

Here are some examples of pages with Low quality MC:
Low Quality MC Examples

Why the MC is considered Low quality

A crafting tutorial page with instructions on how to make a
basic craft and lots of unhelpful "filler" at the top, such as
commonly known facts about the supplies needed or other
non-crafting information.

Lacks adequate effort to clearly present the instructions to
people hoping to make the craft.

A list of the best vacuum cleaners with product images
and reviews that are paraphrased or summarized from
other sources, with minimal signs of effort or original
content added by the content creator.

Lacks adequate effort and first-hand experience from the
content creator.

A slide show of the top 10 world destinations using other
people's pictures and existing top 10 lists.

Lacks effort and originality.

A page titled "How many centimeters are in a meter?" with
a large amount of off-topic and unhelpful content such that
the very small amount of helpful information is hard to find.

Lacks effort, has excessive filler, lacks depth, and has only
commonly known facts.

A list of the tallest mountains in the world that is missing
Mount Everest.

Lacks accuracy and effort.

The title of the page is also considered part of the MC. Titles are important because they represent the page in search
results and help users decide what to click on. A misleading title can lead to a poor search experience. Exaggerated or
shocking titles are evidence of Low quality because of the poor user experience that results when users see the actual
MC after reaching the page.
Here are some examples of pages with Low quality titles:
Low Quality Title Examples

Why the Title is considered Low quality

A page titled "Pink Elephant: Part 2 coming soon!", but
includes only speculation and rumor about a potential
movie sequel that may or may not be produced.

Slightly misleading title would give people the impression
that the movie sequel has a confirmed release date, and
that the page would provide accurate information about it.

A page titled "Is the World about to End? Mysterious
Sightings of Sea Serpents Prompt Panic!", for an article
about the remains of a dead fish on a beach.

Exaggerated and shocking title is a mismatch with the
content of the article.

A page titled "Eat the Healthiest Foods in the WORLD to
extend your life!!!!" for a list of tips on how to add more
fruits and vegetables to meals.

Overly exaggerated title suggests that the page would
offer something more than the basic nutrition advice it
provides.

The level of talent or skill required for artistic expression by ordinary people on social media or other websites that allow
content sharing should be viewed leniently. In many cases, people post activities to share with friends, such as a video
documenting a first attempt at a new hobby. These types of pages should not be considered Low on the basis of talent or
skill because the primary purpose is sharing content. Use the Low rating only if the lack of talent or skill prevents the
page from achieving its purpose well.
Important: Low quality MC does not meet the standard for Lowest and is not harmful, but it is unsatisfying for the
purpose of the page or causes the page to fail to achieve its purpose well.

Copyright 2024

54

5.3

Distracting Ads/SC

We expect Ads and SC to be visible. However, some Ads, SC, or interstitial pages (i.e., pages displayed before or after
the content you are expecting) make it difficult to use the MC. Pages with Ads, SC, or other features that significantly
distract from or interrupt the use of the MC should be given a Low rating.
A single pop-over Ad or interstitial page with a clear and easy-to-use close button is not terribly distracting, even though it
may annoy some people. However, difficult-to-close Ads that follow page scrolls, or interstitial pages that require an app
download, can be truly distracting and make the MC difficult to use. You can see examples of interstitial pages here.
The content of the Ads, SC, or other features may be distracting as well: sexually suggestive images such as here,
grotesque images such as here, and sexually suggestive Ads on otherwise non-sexual pages are very distracting.
Finally, Ads and SC can be distracting if the titles or images of the Ads or SC are shocking or disturbing. Here is an
example of a page with shocking and exaggerated titles, images, and text in the Ads and SC.
Important: The Low rating should be used if the page has Ads, SC, or other features that significantly distract from or
interrupt the use of the MC.

5.4

Mildly Negative Reputation of the Website or Content Creator

The Low rating should be used if the website or the content creator has a mildly negative reputation.
If the MC was created by a content creator who is using the website to host it, research the reputation of the content
creator. Expect to find reputation information on well-known journalists, authors, social media influencers, bloggers and
vloggers, professionals such as lawyers and doctors, etc. Pay attention when there is evidence of mildly
negative—though not malicious or financially fraudulent—reputation. However, a lack of reputation information for
ordinary people and lesser-known content creators is expected and is not a sign of Low quality.
Exercise care when researching the reputation of businesses. Try to find enough reviews to understand a range of
customer opinions and experiences, and read the details of negative reviews and low ratings before inferring that the
business overall has a negative reputation. A few negative customer service reviews are typical for businesses such as
stores or restaurants.

5.5

Unsatisfying Amount of Information about the Website or Content Creator

Expect to find some form of website information for many or most websites. We expect clear information about who (e.g.,
what individual, company, business, foundation, etc.) created the MC, unless there is good reason for anonymity. A
long-standing Internet alias or username can identify the content creator. For personal websites or forum discussions on
non-YMYL topics, an email address or social media link alone may be sufficient. Many people are reasonably hesitant to
share personally identifiable information online!
Stores and websites that process financial transactions require a high level of user trust. If a store or financial transaction
website has just an email address and physical address, it may be difficult to get help if there are issues with the
transaction. Likewise, many other types of websites on clear YMYL topics also require a high level of user trust.
Important: Pages that offer payment functionality or process other types of financial transactions should receive a Low
rating if there is an unsatisfying amount of customer service information or contact information. Pages on YMYL topics
and other pages that require a high level of user trust should receive a Low rating if there is an unsatisfying amount of
information about who is responsible for the website or who created the content. For forums, social media pages, and
other websites where people commonly exchange opinions, a username is an acceptable identifier.

Copyright 2024

55

5.6

Examples of Low Quality Pages

Type of Webpage/Content

Low: News 1
Article about nuclear power

Low Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

●

Information about energy sources and nuclear
power could significantly impact global
industries and society. This is a YMYL topic.

●
●

●
Low: News 2
Article titled "Getting Rid Of
Toxins After The Holiday Season"

●
●
●

Low: Informational
40th birthday party food ideas

Low: Article 1
Article with tips for dressing for
the office

●
●
●

●
●

Unsatisfying MC for the purpose of the
page: does not achieve the purpose well
MC lacks accuracy or does not align with
well-established expert consensus
Low E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Unsatisfying MC for the purpose of the
page: does not achieve the purpose well
MC lacks accuracy or does not align with
well-established expert consensus
Slightly misleading, shocking, or
exaggerated title
Low E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Unsatisfying MC for the purpose of the
page: does not achieve the purpose well
Ads or SC significantly distract from or
interrupt the use of MC
Low E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Unsatisfying MC for the purpose of the
page: does not achieve the purpose well
Low E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Copyright 2024

The writing of this article is unprofessional,
including many grammar and punctuation
errors. The MC also appears to have been
paraphrased from a science article found on a
different source, but with factual inaccuracies
introduced throughout. The combination of low
quality MC and lack of E-A-T justify the
Lowest+ to Low rating.

The title of the article is misleading and does
not reflect the actual content of the page. The
MC does not explain how to get rid of toxins or
what the word "toxins" in the headline refers to.
The content also has many problems: the
writing quality is poor, and the article includes
meaningless statements such as "water
therapy is one of the easiest ways of beauty
regimen since it will give enough moisture on
the skin". The article fails to cite sources, and
there is no evidence of E-A-T.

This page and website have many
characteristics of Low quality pages. Close
observation shows MC that contains mostly
commonly known information and poor quality
writing, demonstrating a lack of effort. The MC
is broken up by large Ads that significantly
disrupt the user experience.

This informational article has multiple Low
quality characteristics leading to a Low or
Lowest+ rating. There is a large amount of
"filler" or meaningless content and a complete
lack of effort in editing. In addition, the MC
contains only commonly known information with
no expertise or first-hand experience shared by
the content creator.

56

Type of Webpage/Content

Low: Article 2
Using ginger for your health

Low Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

●

This informational article has multiple Low
quality characteristics leading to a Low or
Lowest+ rating. There is garbled or
meaningless content, a complete lack of effort
in editing, and unrelated links in the middle of
the page. Additionally, the article is on a health
topic, and there are no signs that the content
creator has relevant expertise or links to
support the medical claims made in the article.

●
●

Unsatisfying MC for the purpose of the
page: does not achieve the purpose well
MC lacks accuracy or does not align with
well-established expert consensus
Low E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Adopting a child significantly impacts the health
and well-being of families. This is a YMYL
topic.

Low: Article 3

●

How to adopt children from Iraq

●

Unsatisfying MC for the purpose of the
page: does not achieve the purpose well
Low E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

However, the steps listed here are merely
commonly-known information that would be of
little benefit to someone interested in adopting
a child from Iraq. For example, step 1 says
“Choose an adoption agency” and suggests
looking in a phone book. This demonstrates a
lack of effort in the creation of MC.
There is almost no information specific to Iraq.
There is no evidence of expertise on adoption
from the description about the author.
Note that some Ads have the same format as
links to other articles on this website, potentially
making it a bit harder for users to visually
distinguish these Ads from the MC and SC.

Low: Financial
Page with advice on picking a
quality stock for investment

●

Low E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Copyright 2024

Advice on stock investment could significantly
impact a person’s financial decisions and
security. This is a YMYL topic.
The MC is superficial and includes mostly
commonly known information for this topic, e.g.
"look at key statistics" or "find companies with
rising revenue". There is no evidence that the
author has financial expertise. Because this
article gives advice on a YMYL financial topic,
lacking expertise is a reason for a Low rating.

57

Type of Webpage/Content

Low Quality Justification

Low: Medical
Page with information about how
long the flu lasts

●

Low E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

PQ Rating and Explanation

Many patient hospitalizations and deaths occur
due to the flu each year. This topic could
significantly impact a person’s health. This is a
YMYL topic.
There is no evidence that the author has
medical expertise. Because this article gives
advice on a YMYL medical topic, lacking
expertise is a reason for a Low rating.

Low: Recipe 1

●

Apple pie recipe

Unsatisfying MC for the purpose of the
page: does not achieve the purpose well

This page and website have many
characteristics of Low quality pages. The MC
is low quality and lacks important information.
For example, it gives no indication of how to
make a crust and doesn’t list premade crust as
an ingredient. It would be very difficult to
actually make an apple pie using this recipe.
This page is lacking the kind of helpful content
we expect in recipe pages, such as user
reviews or comments. Without such
information, it’s hard to tell if the recipe is any
good. The small pink text at the top is not
helpful for users.

Low: Recipe 2
Gluten-free New York cheesecake
recipe

●

Ads or SC significantly distract from or
interrupt the use of MC

Copyright 2024

This is an example of distracting and disruptive
Ads/SC: there are large Ads in the main column
pushing down the MC as well as highly
distracting content on the right that are labeled
“Top Posts & Pages.” It is unclear whether
these are SC or Ads. Additionally, the images
in the Ads/SC are shocking, racy, and
completely unrelated to the MC, which creates
a poor user experience.

58

6.0

Medium Quality Pages

Medium pages have a beneficial purpose and achieve their purpose. There is nothing wrong with Medium quality pages.
Expect to encounter many Medium quality pages in PQ rating tasks.
To identify Medium quality pages, start by considering the following:
Initial Consideration

Medium Quality Pages

The purpose of the page

Medium quality pages have a beneficial or non-harmful purpose.

The potential for the page to cause harm as
described in these guidelines

Medium quality pages are not expected to cause harm.

The topic of the page, the type of website, and
the extent to which YMYL standards apply

A page on any topic or any type of website may qualify for Medium.

The title of the page

Medium quality pages have titles that summarize the page.

The role of Ads and SC on the page

The Ads and SC do not block or significantly interfere with the MC on
Medium quality pages.

Give special scrutiny to pages on YMYL topics or websites needing a
high level of trust, such as online stores.

Remember: Many websites need monetization to share content with
users. The presence or absence of Ads alone is not a consideration
for PQ rating.
Information provided by the website and
content creator

Medium quality pages have adequate information about the website
and content creator for the purpose of the page. For stores or
websites that process financial transactions, examine the customer
service information.
Important: For personal content shared on social media platforms or
forums, an alias or username is adequate.

Next, assess the page to determine if the criteria for Medium apply:
Medium Page Quality Assessment

Medium Quality Criteria

Quality of the MC

MC created with adequate effort, originality, talent, or skill such that the
page achieves its purpose.

Reputation of the website and content creator

Not especially positive nor especially negative: Reputation information
found about the website or content creator is not concerning, but not
positive enough to justify a higher rating.

Trustworthiness of the page: E-E-A-T

Adequate level of E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page.

Copyright 2024

59

6.1

Types of Medium Quality Pages

There are two types of Medium quality pages:
Type of Medium Page

Description

Nothing wrong, but nothing
special

All of the Medium Page Quality considerations and criteria apply.

Mixed, but with some
redeeming qualities

The page or website has some signs of High quality (E-E-A-T, quality of the MC,
positive reputation), but also has one sign or mild signs of Low quality.

Important: For a page to receive a rating higher than Medium, it must meet the criteria described in the next sections on
High and Highest page quality. For a page to receive a rating lower than Medium, it must meet the criteria for Low or
Lowest page quality. Medium is a rating that applies to many pages you will encounter in PQ rating tasks: many pages
have nothing wrong, yet do not represent the high or highest quality content that's available online.

6.2

Examples of Medium Quality Pages

Webpage/Type of Content

Medium Quality Justification

Medium: Encyclopedia

Nothing wrong, but nothing special

Wikipedia article about baroque
pearls

●

Medium: Humor
Page from a humorous site

Adequate MC: achieves the purpose of
the page

Nothing wrong, but nothing special
●

Adequate MC: achieves the purpose of
the page

Medium: Entertainment 1

Nothing wrong, but nothing special

Article about “Keeping Up with the
Kardashians” show

●

Adequate MC: achieves the purpose of
the page

Copyright 2024

PQ Rating and Explanation

This is a short Wikipedia article about baroque
pearls, a fairly narrow topic. This page
achieves its purpose but doesn’t display
characteristics associated with a High rating,
such as effort in the form of interesting and
meaningful content.

This page is from a humorous site that
encourages users to post photos with mouths
drawn on them. This page achieves its
purpose but doesn’t display characteristics
associated with a High rating, such as effort in
the form of discussion, engagement, or
comments from other users.

This page is on a website dedicated to
entertainment news. This page achieves its
purpose but doesn’t display characteristics
associated with a High rating, such as effort in
the form of interesting and entertaining content,
original images, etc.

60

Webpage/Type of Content

Medium: Entertainment 2
Article about Miley Cyrus

Medium Quality Justification

Nothing wrong, but nothing special
●

Adequate MC: achieves the purpose of
the page

Medium: Lyrics

Nothing wrong, but nothing special

Song lyrics for the song “Never
You/Fear Love”

●

Medium: Recipe 1

Nothing wrong, but nothing special

Mexi-Chicken Casserole on a
newspaper website

●

Medium: Recipe 2
Recipe for cherry-topped cake

Adequate MC: achieves the purpose of
the page

Adequate MC: achieves the purpose of
the page

Nothing wrong, but nothing special
●

Adequate MC: achieves the purpose of
the page

Copyright 2024

PQ Rating and Explanation

This page is from a news/entertainment
website. This page achieves its purpose but
doesn’t display characteristics associated with
a High rating, such as effort in the form of
interesting and entertaining content, original
images, etc.

There are many lyrics websites that have
similar content. This page achieves its purpose
but doesn’t display characteristics associated
with a High rating, such as effort in the form of
depth of content, originality, etc.

This recipe was contributed by a cookbook
author. However, the page has no SC related
to the purpose of the page, such as reviews or
links to other recipes, etc. This page achieves
its purpose but doesn’t display characteristics
associated with a High rating, such as effort in
the form of original images or comments from
users who followed the recipe.

This website is known for high quality content
about animals and the environment. This
particular page has a recipe for kids. There
isn’t much MC or SC. This page achieves its
purpose but it doesn’t display characteristics
associated with a High rating, such as effort in
the form of more detailed steps or inspiration.

61

7.0

High Quality Pages

High quality pages serve a beneficial purpose and achieve that purpose well. High quality pages exist for almost any
beneficial purpose you can imagine, from providing information to selling products to making people laugh to artistic
expression.
To identify High quality pages, start by considering the following:
Initial Consideration

High Quality Pages

The purpose of the page

High quality pages have a beneficial purpose.

The potential for the page to cause harm as
described in these guidelines

High quality pages are not expected to cause harm.

The topic of the page, the type of website, and
the extent to which YMYL standards apply

A page on any topic or any type of website may qualify for High.

The title of the page

High quality pages have titles that summarize the page.

The role of Ads and SC on the page

The Ads and SC do not block or significantly interfere with the MC on
High quality pages.

Give special scrutiny to pages on YMYL topics or websites needing a
high level of trust, such as online stores.

Remember: Many websites need monetization to share content with
users. The presence or absence of Ads alone is not a consideration
for PQ rating.
Information provided by the website and
content creator

High quality pages have adequate information about the website and
content creator for the purpose of the page. For stores or websites
that process financial transactions, examine the customer service
information.
Important: For personal content shared on social media platforms or
forums, an alias or username is adequate.

Next, assess the page to determine if the criteria for High apply:
High Page Quality Assessment

High Quality Pages must demonstrate at least one of the following

Quality of the MC

MC created with a high level of effort, originality, talent, or skill such
that the page achieves its purpose well.

Reputation of the website and content creator

Positive reputation of the website for the topic of the page.
Positive reputation of the content creator for the topic of the MC.

Trustworthiness of the page: E-E-A-T

High level of E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page.

Copyright 2024

62

7.1

High Quality Main Content

High quality MC should be satisfying for people visiting the page. High quality MC shows evidence of effort, originality,
talent, or skill. For informational pages, High quality MC must be accurate and consistent with well-established expert
consensus when such consensus exists. Have high standards! If you aren't sure whether the content is high quality, try
finding other pages on the same topic to help calibrate your assessment: "typical" and "average" pages on a topic
generally have Medium (not High) quality MC.
To help develop your standards, here are some examples of High quality MC in contrast with Low quality MC:
High Quality MC: Details and Examples

Low Quality MC: Details and Examples

High level of effort: The website or content creators
worked hard to create content that achieves the purpose
of the page. The MC is well-organized, edited, and
curated to support the purpose.

Low level of effort: The MC shows signs of a lack of
effort by the website or content creators.

●
●
●

●

A news article with accuracy, depth, and clarity
A Q&A page or forum post with meaningful
discussion by multiple participants
A well-organized crafting tutorial page with clear,
helpful instructions so that others can make the
craft successfully

●
●

Lack of curation or editing: Content that helps the
page achieve its purpose is mixed with less helpful
distracting or filler content
Lack of content creation: A forum post with little
discussion or only superficial comments
Lack of organization: A crafting tutorial page with
lots of unhelpful "filler" at the top and little effort put
into explaining how to make the craft (the purpose
of the page) at the bottom

High originality
● The MC is unique or original to the website
● Original photos or video footage produced by the
website or content creator
● The content on the page is unique to the content
creators, such as a personal perspective based on
first-hand life experience

Low originality
● Information is summarized from other sources with
little added value
● Photos or videos come from other sources
● A summary of the perspectives of others, such as
summarizing product reviews written by others

High level of talent or skill
● The MC showcases the talent of the creator, e.g. a
video of a talented content creator dancing
● The MC allows the page to achieve its purpose well
because the content creator has talent or skill, e.g.
a how-to article on plumbing by a skilled plumber

Low level of talent or skill
● A lack of adequate talent or skill prevents the page
from achieving its purpose, e.g. a how-to article on
plumbing by someone who does not have the
necessary skill to explain the steps accurately

7.2

Positive Reputation

Positive reputation of the website can be a reason for a High rating if the website is responsible for the MC. If the website
is not responsible for the MC (e.g., posts on social media websites or forums), positive reputation of the content creator(s)
can be a reason for the High rating.
For non-YMYL topics, reputation information may be less formal. Popularity, user engagement, and user reviews can be
considered evidence of reputation for non-YMYL websites: websites can be considered to have a positive reputation if
they are popular and well-known for their topic or content type.
Remember: Many smaller websites and ordinary people have little reputation information available. A page can still
receive a High rating without reputation information.

Copyright 2024

63

7.3

High Level of E-E-A-T

Depending on the purpose of the page, topic, and type of website, a high level of E-E-A-T may be required for the page to
achieve its purpose well and be considered High quality. Pages with High E-E-A-T are trustworthy or very trustworthy.
Experience is valuable for almost any topic. Social media posts and forum discussions are often High quality
when they involve people sharing their experience. From writing symphonies to reviewing home appliances,
first-hand experience can make a social media post or discussion page High quality.
Expertise is required for satisfying content on a variety of topics, from hobbies such as photography to YMYL
topics such as tax preparation. Think about the topic of the page and what expertise is needed to create
satisfying, trustworthy content. There are many types of informal expertise that may be visible in the MC itself.
Authoritative pages of all types can be found. Government tax websites are an authoritative source for tax
forms. Local businesses and organizations may be go-to sources for local information. When looking at a
page or website, consider whether it is considered a go-to, authoritative source for the type of information it is
displaying.
Trust is especially important for High quality pages that involve processing financial transactions or cover
YMYL topics. Even if the topic is not YMYL, trust may still be required; for example, product reviews and pages
offering advice require at least some level of trust. While not all pages require a high level of trust, a
trustworthy page is often a satisfying one.
Think about the topic of the page. What kind of E-E-A-T is required for the page to achieve its purpose well?

Copyright 2024

64

7.4

Examples of High Quality Pages

Webpage/Type of Content

High Quality Justification

High: News 1

●

Homepage of a newspaper

●

High: News 2

●

Opinion article on a newspaper
website

●

The news on the homepage of a newspaper is
often on topics that significantly impact society.
Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
This is a YMYL topic.
the page well
Positive website reputation for the topic of
This is the homepage of a newspaper that has
the page
won several prestigious awards and has a
positive reputation for its objective reporting.
The articles on the homepage are original
reporting by professional journalists (effort, skill,
and original content unique to this site).

High: Humor
Article on a humor website

This is an opinion piece written by the Editorial
Board of the largest newspaper in the U.S.
state of Minnesota. The page is clearly labeled
as an opinion piece, welcoming a new football
coach to the University of Minnesota. This is
original content unique to this site that was
created by a skilled editorial board with
expertise in editorial opinion writing.

●

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
Positive website reputation for the topic of
the page
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

●

High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

●

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
Positive website reputation for the topic of This website is well-known for its humorous,
satirical articles. This is a cute example of a
the page
satisfying and funny article (talent, skill, and
original content unique to this site).

High: Government agency
US Naval Observatory Master
Clock page

PQ Rating and Explanation

●

High: Small business 1

●

Local fish & chips restaurant

●

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Copyright 2024

The purpose of this page is to display the
official US Naval Observatory Master Clock
time in 7 different time zones. The page
displays the clock information in a clear,
easy-to-read format. The Naval Observatory is
highly trustworthy and authoritative for this type
of information.

This is an “about us” page on a restaurant
website. This page provides information on
when the restaurant opened and what visitors
can expect. Other pages on the website
provide information about the restaurant
including the address, menu, other contact
information, etc. The website is the go-to
source for information about itself
(Authoritative). The MC is high quality (effort,
original content unique to this site).

65

Webpage/Type of Content

High Quality Justification

High: Small business 2

●

Local preservation center

●

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

PQ Rating and Explanation

This is the News and Updates section of a
local preservation center selling poultry,
vegetables, and more (Expertise). The MC is
high quality (effort, original content unique to
this site).
Note: This example was added in 2014 so the
“News and Updates” were timely.

High: Blog post
Parenting article about strollers

High: Shopping 1
Backpack shopping page on a
popular store website

High: Shopping 2
Bathroom décor page on a store
website

High: Video 1
Saturday Night Live video on a
video website

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●

●
●

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
Positive content creator reputation for the
topic of the page
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
Positive website reputation for the topic of
the page
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

This is a blog post on a newspaper that has
won several prestigious awards. The author of
this blog post has become known as an expert
on parenting issues (Expertise) and is a regular
contributor to this and other media websites
(positive content creator reputation). The MC
demonstrates effort and is original to this site.

The purpose of this page is to allow users to
buy a school backpack. The page provides a
lot of different backpack options, and some of
them have user reviews.
This is a well-known, reputable merchant, with
detailed Customer Service information on the
site, making it very trustworthy (Trust). The MC
demonstrates effort, and the products on sale
are unique to this site (effort, original content).

Positive website reputation for the topic of This company sells its own line of high end,
the page
fashionable baby and children’s furniture and
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page accessories. It has a positive reputation and
expertise in these specific types of goods.
Many products sold on the site are unique to
this company.

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Copyright 2024

The MC of this video page is an episode of
Saturday Night Live, which represents original
content produced by a talented organization
with experience and expertise in producing
humorous television shows.

66

Webpage/Type of Content

High Quality Justification

High: Video 2

●

“An Engineer’s Guide to Cats”
video

●

High: Game

●

Online game

●

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

PQ Rating and Explanation

This is a humorous, high quality video,
illustrating the proper care and practical
benefits of cats (original content, talent). The
two engineers in the video are very
experienced in cat ownership (Experience).
For a humorous video like this one, experience
(rather than formal expertise in cat care) is
enough for it to have high E-E-A-T.

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
Highly engaging game with multiple levels that
Positive website reputation for the topic of could entertain a child for hours (effort, original
the page
content, talent and skill in game design). This
website has a positive reputation for educating
children about animals, and this particular
animal game is consistent with that reputation.

This is a detailed article about the American
Civil War. The citations support the E-E-A-T of
this article.
High: Encyclopedia

●

Encyclopedia article about the
American Civil War

●

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
There is a large quantity of in-depth, original
the page well
content (effort, accuracy). This website has a
Positive website reputation for the topic of
positive reputation as a good resource for
the page
finding a wealth of generally known facts about
topics such as this one.
Note: Although much of the content is visible on
the mobile page, we consider the content under
the headings (which you need to expand) to be
part of the MC. (To see the screenshot, you will
need to zoom in to the image.)

Copyright 2024

67

8.0

Highest Quality Pages

Highest quality pages serve a beneficial purpose and achieve that purpose very well. The distinction between High and
Highest is based on the quality of MC, the reputation of the website and content creator, and/or E-E-A-T.
To identify Highest quality pages, start by considering the following:
Initial Consideration

Highest Quality Pages

The purpose of the page

Highest quality pages have a beneficial purpose.

The potential for the page to cause harm as
described in these guidelines

Highest quality pages are not expected to cause harm.

The topic of the page, the type of website, and
the extent to which YMYL standards apply

A page on any topic or any type of website may qualify for Highest.

The title of the page

Highest quality pages have titles that summarize the page.

The role of Ads and SC on the page

The Ads and SC do not block or significantly interfere with the MC on
HIghest quality pages.

Give special scrutiny to pages on YMYL topics or websites needing a
high level of trust, such as online stores.

Remember: Many websites need monetization to share content with
users. The presence or absence of Ads alone is not a consideration
for PQ rating.
Information provided by the website and
content creator

Highest quality pages have adequate information about the website
and content creator for the purpose of the page. For stores or
websites that process financial transactions, examine the customer
service information.
Important: For personal content shared on social media platforms or
forums, an alias or username is adequate.

Next, assess the page to determine if the criteria for Highest apply:
Highest Page Quality Assessment

Highest Quality Pages must demonstrate at least one of the following

Quality of the MC

MC created with a very high level of effort, originality, talent, or skill
such that the page achieves its purpose very well.

Reputation of the website and content creator

Very positive reputation of the website for the topic of the page.
Very positive reputation of the content creator for the topic of the MC.

Trustworthiness of the page: E-E-A-T

Very high level of E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page.

Copyright 2024

68

8.1

Very High Quality MC

Very high quality MC should be highly satisfying for people visiting the page. Very high quality MC shows evidence of a
high level of effort, originality, talent, or skill. For informational pages, very high quality MC must be accurate, clearly
communicated, and consistent with well-established expert consensus when it exists. Very high quality MC represents
some of the most outstanding content on a topic or type that's available online.
The standards for Highest quality MC may be very different depending on the purpose, topic, and type of website. Here
are some examples of Highest quality original content:
●

●

●

For news: Original reporting that provides information that would not otherwise have been known had the article
not revealed it. Accurate, original, in-depth, and investigative reporting requires a high level of skill/talent and
effort. Very high quality news content will include a description of primary sources and other original reporting
referenced during the content creation process. Very high quality news content must be accurate and should
meet professional journalistic standards.
For artistic content (videos, images, photography, writing, etc.): Unique and original content created by highly
skilled and talented artists or content creators. Such artistic content requires a high level of skill/talent and effort.
If the artistic content is related to a YMYL topic (e.g., artistic content with the purpose of informing or swaying
opinion about YMYL topics), YMYL standards should apply.
For informational content: Original, accurate, comprehensive, clearly communicated, and should reflect expert
consensus as appropriate. Expectations for different types of information may vary. For example, scientific
papers have a different set of expectations than a social media post sharing information about a hobby such as
stamp collecting. However, all types of very high quality informational content share common characteristics of
accuracy and clarity of communication, in addition to meeting standards appropriate to the topic or field.

The Highest rating may be justified for pages with very satisfying MC created with a very high level of effort, originality,
talent, or skill.

8.2

Very Positive Reputation

Reputation research is important when giving Highest ratings. For YMYL topics, very positive reputation is often based
on recommendations from known experts or professional societies appropriate to the topic of the page. Prestigious
awards may be evidence as well, depending on the topic and type of content.
For non-YMYL topics, reputation information may be less formal. Popularity, user engagement, and user reviews can be
considered evidence of reputation for non-YMYL websites: websites and content creators can be considered to have a
very positive reputation if they are seen as one of the best sources available online for a topic or type of content.
Remember: Many smaller websites and ordinary people have little reputation information. A page can still receive a
Highest rating without reputation information.

8.3

Very High Level of E-E-A-T

Very high E-E-A-T is a distinguishing factor for Highest quality pages. A website or content creator who is the uniquely
authoritative, go-to source for a topic has very high E-E-A-T. A content creator with a wealth of experience may be
considered to have very high E-E-A-T for topics where experience is the primary factor in trust. A very high level of
expertise can justify a very high E-E-A-T assessment. Very high E-E-A-T websites and content creators are the most
trusted sources on the internet for a particular topic.
Think about what E-E-A-T means for the topic of the page. How important is first-hand experience? Who are the
experts? What makes a source highly authoritative for the topic? What makes a website or content creator trustworthy
for the topic? Standards for very high E-E-A-T will differ depending on the topic of the page.

Copyright 2024

69

8.4

Examples of Highest Quality Pages

Webpage/Type of Content

Highest: News 1
Article on a newspaper website

Highest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

●

Reporting on environmental toxicity can
significantly impact the health and financial
security of people, businesses and government
agencies. This page is on a YMYL topic.

●
●

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

This is a feature article from a newspaper that
has won numerous awards (very positive
reputation of the website).
The page has a comprehensive amount of very
high-quality MC, including in-depth reporting
(effort, original content unique to this site, skill,
accuracy) by authors with extensive knowledge
and experience in investigative journalism
(Expertise).

●
Highest: News 2
Article on a newspaper website

Highest: Informational 1
Fact-checking page on an
Internet rumor debunking website

●
●

●
●
●

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive content creator reputation
for the topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Copyright 2024

This is an article on a newspaper website that
has won a variety of awards.
The article has a comprehensive amount of
very high quality MC that is unique and original,
including in-depth investigative reporting by two
authors with extensive knowledge and
experience in investigative journalism (effort,
original content unique to this site, skill,
accuracy). The reporters were finalists for a
prestigious news award for the investigative
reporting of this article (very positive reputation
of the content creators).

This page is on a well-known fact-checking and
debunking website that covers urban legends,
Internet rumors, and other stories of unknown
or questionable origin (very positive reputation
of the website).
The page has a very satisfying amount of
original MC for users seeking to validate a
photo claiming to have discovered a mermaid
(effort, skill in fact checking, original content).
Users can trust the information on this page
due to the website's positive reputation and
high level of expertise in debunking stories of
this type.

70

Webpage/Type of Content

Highest: Informational 2
Ball gown wedding dress page

Highest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

●

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page

This page has very satisfying MC for users
interested in ball gown wedding dresses. An
abundance of pictures, plus options to view by
price range, style, etc., are part of what makes
this page so satisfying (effort demonstrated in
the depth and types of content). This page is
on a very popular wedding planning website
(very positive reputation of the website).

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

This page has very satisfying and helpful
information about Yosemite National Park,
including traffic alerts and links to other parts of
the website with additional information (effort,
accuracy). Since the page is on the official
national park website, it is uniquely
authoritative (highest E-E-A-T).

●

Highest: Government agency

●

Yosemite National Park
information

●

Highest: Technical 1
Software tips

Highest: Technical 2
Linux Kernel archives

●
●

●
●

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

This page offers very satisfying and helpful MC
for the purpose of the page. Because the page
is on the official website of the company that
produces the software, it is highly authoritative
(highest E-E-A-T).

From this Wikipedia article, we learn that
“Kernel.org is a main repository of source code
for the Linux kernel, the base of the popular
Linux operating system. It makes all versions
of the source code available to all users... The
main purpose of the site is to host a repository
for Linux kernel developers and maintainers of
Linux distributions.”
This website is the most authoritative source for
information about Linux (highest E-E-A-T) and
has a very positive reputation in the topic of the
page.

Copyright 2024

71

Webpage/Type of Content

Highest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

Highest: Financial 1

●

Credit reports significantly impact a person’s
financial choices and opportunities. This is a
YMYL topic.

Credit report information website

●

Highest: Financial 2
Tax forms page

●
●

Highest: Magazine Article 1

●

Article titled “Secret Fears of the
Super-Rich”

●

Highest: Magazine Article 2
Interview with musical artist

●
●

Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page

Copyright 2024

Users in the U.S. can obtain free credit reports
on this website by providing their Social
Security Number. This Wikipedia article tells us
that this website is “the only federally mandated
and authorized source for obtaining a free
credit report". This website is uniquely
authoritative (highest E-E-A-T) and has a very
positive reputation for credit report information.

Income tax forms significantly impact a
person’s financial security. This is a YMYL
topic.
The purpose of the page is to provide income
tax forms and publications. The website
represents an agency of the U.S. federal
government that handles taxes, so the page
and forms are uniquely authoritative and
trustworthy.

This article is on a magazine website that has
won multiple National Magazine awards (very
positive reputation for this type of article). The
article has in-depth MC that is unique and
original (effort, skill, original content).

This magazine is very well-known and well
regarded for content about artists and bands,
and specifically has a positive reputation for
interviews with musicians. This article features
in-depth, original content in its interview with
the artist.

72

Webpage/Type of Content

Highest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

BMI is used by healthcare professionals to
screen for various health issues and can
significantly impact a person’s medical
treatment. This is a YMYL topic.
Highest: Medical 1
BMI calculator

●
●

Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

The purpose of this page is to provide an online
BMI (Body Mass Index) calculator. The
calculator is functional and easy to use. This
page was created with effort and skill, and it
accomplishes its purpose very well by offering
very high quality and satisfying MC.
The website represents an institute that is part
of the National Institutes of Health. It has an
extremely good reputation and is an expert in
medical topics.

Highest: Medical 2
Page about meningitis

Highest: Medical 3
Page about seasonal flu

●
●

●
●

Highest: Medical 4

●

Health information on a hospital
page

●

Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Copyright 2024

Information about meningitis could significantly
impact a person’s health. This is a YMYL topic.
This is a meningitis reference page on a
trustworthy and authoritative website for a
nonprofit medical research group. This website
has a reputation of being one of the best web
resources for medical information.

Many patient hospitalizations and deaths occur
due to the flu each year. This topic could
significantly impact a person’s health. This is a
YMYL topic.
This is an influenza reference page on a
trustworthy and authoritative medical website.
This website has a reputation of being one of
the best web resources for medical information
of this type.

Information about hospital services and
treatments could significantly impact a person’s
ability to seek and receive healthcare. This is a
YMYL topic.
According to this Wikipedia article, this hospital
is “currently regarded as one of the top 4
hospitals in the United States as rated by U.S.
News & World Report.” Users can trust
medical information on this website.

73

Webpage/Type of Content

Highest: Shopping
Backpack shopping page

Highest: Login
Online banking login page

Highest: Charity
Homepage of a charity

Highest Quality Justification

PQ Rating and Explanation

●

The purpose of this page is to provide
information about, and allow users to buy, a
specific type of school backpack. The page
provides a lot of helpful product information, as
well as 600 user reviews (effort, original
content).

●
●

●
●

●
●

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Since the store produces this backpack (unique
product), they are experts on the product,
making the page on their own website
authoritative (highest E-E-A-T). In addition, this
store has a reputation for producing one of the
highest quality and most popular school
backpacks on the market.

Accessing one’s financial information
significantly impacts a person’s financial
decisions and security. This is a YMYL topic.
This page has login functionality and clear
information about what the user is logging into.
This is a large, popular bank that has a good
reputation and is considered highly trustworthy.

Disaster relief significantly impacts people and
society in a time of crisis. This page is on a
YMYL topic.
This is a highly reputable charity according to
multiple charity rating organizations.

Highest: PDF File
Campus map

●
●

Highest: Recipe

●

Chocolate chip cookie recipe on a
recipe blog

●

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Copyright 2024

This PDF file is a detailed campus map of a
major university, which is hosted on the official
university website. This is a highly authoritative
source for this information. The map includes a
listing of all the buildings, parking structures,
parking lots, construction areas, etc. (effort,
skill, accuracy).

The author of this blog has documented her
extensive experimentation with a chocolate
chip cookie recipe (Experience), and her
expertise and skill is demonstrated in the large
quantity of unique, original, and very satisfying
MC.

74

Webpage/Type of Content

Highest Quality Justification

Highest: Video 1

●

The band OK Go’s music video
for the song “This Too Shall Pass”

●

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page

PQ Rating and Explanation

This is a high quality, professionally produced
video on the band’s official channel. The music
video represents unique and original content
created by a highly skilled and talented musical
artist (talent, skill, effort, original content).
In addition, this video sharing website has a
positive reputation for hosting official music
videos from bands.

Highest: Video 2

●

“Henri 2, Paw de Deux” video

●

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page

This is an amateur video that went viral,
created by a film school student about his
mother's cat. It won the “Golden Kitty Award”
for “Best Cat Video On The Internet” at
the Walker Art Center's Internet Cat Video Film
Festival. The video is unique and original
content created with a high level of effort.
In addition, this video sharing website has a
positive reputation for cute cat videos.

Highest: Video 3
Saturday Night Live video on the
TV network’s website

●
●
●

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive content creator reputation
for the topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Copyright 2024

The MC of this video page is an episode of
Saturday Night Live on the TV network’s official
website, which is a go-to source for this
content. The episode represents high quality
and original content created by a TV show that
has won numerous awards. Below the main
video, there are many other videos that users
may be interested in.

75

9.0

Page Quality Criteria for Specific Types of Pages

9.1

Ratings for Encyclopedia Pages

There are many encyclopedia-type websites. Some are highly-respected publications that are standard references, while
some are websites with content created and edited by anonymous users, with no editorial oversight or fact checking. We
may not always know the author of the specific encyclopedia article, and therefore must rely on website reputation
research to determine the E-E-A-T of the article. High and Highest quality ratings should only be used for encyclopedias
with very good reputations for accuracy and expertise, where the article itself is well-researched with appropriate
references cited.
A note about Wikipedia: in general, the website has a good reputation and is a very popular resource that is generally
valued for accuracy. However, there is no single author or organization that vouches for the accuracy of Wikipedia
articles, and the quality of pages varies. You should check individual articles to evaluate the quality of the MC.
A Wikipedia article on a non-YMYL topic (example) with a satisfying amount of accurate information and trustworthy
external references can usually be rated in the High range. A PQ rating in the Medium range is often appropriate for
pages with less extensive MC and external references. Naturally, Wikipedia articles with very little MC should get lower
PQ ratings. Factual inaccuracy is a sufficient reason for a Low or Lowest rating.

9.2

Ratings for Pages with Error Messages or No MC

In PQ rating tasks, you may encounter pages with error messages or other types of "broken" pages. Please think about
whether the page offers help for users—did the website owner make an effort to ensure that users visiting the page have
a good experience and get help finding what they are looking for?
Pages with an explicit error (or custom 404) message are often Medium quality, since they tend to clearly communicate
that there's a problem and help users navigate to other/better pages on the website. A rating of High (or occasionally
even Highest) may be used for the rare error message page that involves a high level of effort and original content and
provides a truly satisfying experience for users.
Pages that are "broken" are often Low quality, because the broken aspect prevents them from achieving their purpose
even if the problem is temporary and likely to be fixed later on by the website owner. However, sometimes "broken"
pages should be rated Lowest if the problem is not temporary and instead is due to a systemic problem with the website.
To differentiate between Low quality (temporarily broken) vs. Lowest quality (evidence of a systemic problem) pages,
check other pages on the same website. If many other pages have the same problem, there is a systemic lack of effort
on the part of the website owner that justifies the Lowest rating. Otherwise, use the Low rating to reflect the (hopefully
temporary!) issue with the MC on the page.
Here are some examples:
Webpage/Type of Content

Lowest: Deliberately created with
no MC (systemic problem)

Characteristics of the Page

●
●

No MC
Content created with little to no effort,
talent, skill, originality, manual curation, or
added value for users

Copyright 2024

PQ Rating and Explanation

This is an example of a page with no MC. You
might think that the MC is “missing” due to a
problem with this particular page, but in fact,
this website has hundreds of pages that look
the same—no MC, just Ads. This website
shows Ads with little or no attempt to help
users, and should be rated Lowest quality.

76

Webpage/Type of Content

Low: Page didn't fully load and
has no MC (temporarily broken)

Medium: Error page with custom
404 message

Characteristics of the Page

PQ Rating and Explanation

●

This page has no MC and no error message. It
is an isolated example of a page with no MC or
error message on a website for a reputable
newspaper for a town in Michigan. All of the
navigation links work, and the page was later
fixed. This page can be viewed as lacking in
effort (an error that was not caught before the
page went live).

●

●

No MC (probably due to a temporary
technical error)
Positive website reputation

Nothing wrong, but nothing special

This is an example of a “custom 404” page,
alerting users that the URL they are trying to
visit no longer exists. Some websites do a nice
job of alerting users about a problem and
providing helpful tips.
This page is on a well-known merchant website
with a good reputation. However, this particular
page displays the bare minimum of content
needed to explain the problem to users, and
the only helpful content is a link to the
homepage.

High: Error page with custom 404
message

Highest: Error page with custom
404 message

●
●

●
●

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
Positive website reputation

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Very positive website reputation

This is an example of a “custom 404” page,
alerting users that the URL they are trying to
visit no longer exists. This website does a nice
job of explaining the issue and providing helpful
tips, including a search box.

This is an example of a “custom 404” page.
These pages are designed to alert users that
the URL they are trying to visit no longer exists.
The MC of this page is the cartoon, the caption,
and the search functionality, which is specific to
the content of the website. It is clear that effort
and talent was involved in the creation of the
MC.
This publication has a very positive reputation
and is specifically known for its cartoons, which
allows us to go as high as High+ to Highest.
This is among the most clever, original, and
satisfying custom 404 messages that can be
found online!

Copyright 2024

77

9.3

Ratings for Forums and Q&A Pages

Ratings for forum and Q&A pages can be challenging. Here is some guidance on how to approach these pages:
●
●
●
●

●

●
●

The Main Content includes the question, the answers/responses, and the resulting discussions.
Rate from the point of view of a user who visits the page, rather than a participant involved in the discussion.
Users who post answers/responses or comments are often identified only by a username or alias. A page
can be High or Highest quality with just usernames or aliases depending on other criteria.
The E-E-A-T of a discussion among users can often be judged by the posts or comments themselves.
○ For some topics, Experience is the most important dimension of Trust. For other topics, assessing
Expertise through the posts may be important. In some cases, the posters themselves will highlight either
their own Experience or Expertise, or other people will comment on it.
○ Pages on YMYL topics require more attention to Trust and more care in the assessment of E-E-A-T.
Highest quality forum/Q&A pages have extremely satisfying conversations, including participation from users
who have put a great deal of effort into their posts and have a wealth of Experience and/or Expertise on the topic.
Such conversations can be very satisfying because of the depth of discussion, the unique insights, or the sharing
of experiences that many would not have access to in their real-world community.
Low quality forum/Q&A pages often lack effort (few responses, surface-level rather than in-depth discussion),
lack Experience or Expertise, contain mild inaccuracies, or show a significant lack of respect or decorum among
the participants that might deter others from joining the discussion.
Lowest quality forum/Q&A pages may contain information or advice that is harmfully misleading, contradicts
well-established expert consensus, encourages harm towards self or other individuals/participants, etc.

One challenge is rating pages with little to no participation, and/or no answer to an open question:
●
●

A new page or recently started discussion that consists only of a question or initial post by a person should
generally be rated Medium unless there are other low quality attributes. These pages may need time to achieve
their purpose.
Over time, no participation in a discussion (or only superficial discussion) and/or no meaningful answer to an open
question may be a reason for a Low quality rating, especially in the presence of other low quality attributes.

Another challenge occurs when the discussion on the page drifts, becomes combative, or becomes dominated by
misleading or spammy content. When rating, value the insightful, meaningful discussion that exists. If the page is a mix
of high and low quality characteristics but has insightful, meaningful discussion, the Medium rating may be most
appropriate as long as the page is not potentially harmful.
Here are some examples:

Copyright 2024

78

Webpage/Type of Content

Characteristics of the Page

PQ Rating and Explanation

Information about chest pain and smoking
could significantly impact people’s decisions to
seek medical treatment. This page is on a
YMYL topic.

Lowest: Q&A page about chest
pains and smoking

●

Harmfully Misleading Information:
Contains inaccurate and potentially
dangerous medical advice about a YMYL
topic

This page must be evaluated from the point of
view of a user visiting this page from a search
engine, rather than a participant. The question
is poorly worded and difficult to understand.
There aren't many responses. One response
correctly warns about the danger of smoking
cigarettes but suggests smoking marijuana
instead. Another response suggests that it's
fine to keep smoking and that aspirin can be
used to address pain. The last response lacks
respect: it asks if the person who asked the
original question is stupid.
The answers have incorrect and potentially
dangerous medical advice, making it lowest
quality MC.

Low: Q&A page about a 2002
Volvo part

●
●

Unsatisfying MC for the purpose of the
page: does not achieve the purpose well
Misleading page design

Nothing wrong, nothing special
Medium: Forum page with a new
question, posted by a person

●
●

Real in-depth question, posted very
recently
No one has responded (yet)

Please read the MC (areas with red boxes
around it), including the completely unhelpful
"answer." This answer is so unhelpful, we can
consider this question to be unanswered. This
page has an unsatisfying amount of MC.
In addition to a very unhelpful “answer,” the
page design makes it difficult to distinguish the
MC from Ads. For example, below the answer,
we see a "sponsored answer," which has the
same format as the real answer, but is actually
an Ad and not an answer to the question—this
is a misleading page design.

Forums rely on user engagement to create
satisfying MC. In this case, a real person has
posted a question that can lead to good
discussion. The question is only hours old (at
the time this example was created).
For new questions, discussions and threads, a
Medium rating is appropriate if there are no low
quality characteristics but also no opportunity
for discussion yet.

Copyright 2024

79

Webpage/Type of Content

Characteristics of the Page

PQ Rating and Explanation

Mixed, but with some redeeming qualities:
Medium: Forum page on an
online auction website

●
●

High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page
Unsatisfying MC for the purpose of the
page: does not achieve the purpose well

Mixed, but with some redeeming qualities:
Medium: Forum page on how to
wash ballet shoes

●
●
●

High: Forum post on the magic
loop technique in knitting

High: Q&A page about whether a
Roomba will work

●
●

●
●

Adequate MC: achieves the purpose of
the page
Ads or SC significantly distract from or
interrupt the use of MC
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

MC is satisfying for the purpose of the
page: demonstrates effort, originality,
talent, or skill
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Copyright 2024

The relative lack of effort/participation in the
discussion and depth of the MC is balanced by
the high E-E-A-T of this forum. This forum is
dedicated to this kind of question and therefore
has a high level of expertise.

This forum is about dance topics, and many
pages have expertise from a community of
ballet dancers. On this particular page,
participants have first-hand experience washing
ballet shoes and make recommendations
based on their own experiences.
This page is “mixed” because there is some
distracting content that makes it hard to read
the MC. However, this is not a beauty contest!
Even though the page may be cluttered, there
is some valuable E-E-A-T and helpful MC,
making Medium a good rating for this page.

The person who posted the first message on
this forum page provides a helpful resource on
how to master the magic loop technique in
knitting (effort, skill). She also shares pictures
of her own version using an old pair of blue
jeans (original content). With over 20 years of
experience knitting socks, we would consider
her to be an expert on the topic.

Many participants share their personal
experiences with these products, giving details
such as how well certain models work with pet
hair (effort, first-hand experience, original
content). There are many descriptions of
participants’ own experiences with this product
and how well it works for them, making the MC
satisfying for the purpose of the page.

80

Webpage/Type of Content

Characteristics of the Page

●
High: Forum page on
authenticating a purse

●
●

High: Forum page on landscaping
an aquarium

●
●

●
Highest: Q&A page about how
long most cancer patients live

●
●

●
Highest: Q&A page on
abbreviations

●
●

PQ Rating and Explanation

This forum is a go-to source for discussions on
luxury designer purses (positive website
Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
reputation, experience, expertise, "go-to"
the page well
authority). On this particular forum page,
Positive website reputation for the topic of members are consulting forum experts who
the page
have expertise authenticating bags from this
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page brand. These experts can tell if a particular bag
is authentic or fake. The quality of the MC is
high due to the level of effort, skill, and
engagement among those who participate in
the forum. While there is an ad at the top and a
few ads within the forum message, it does not
distract from the MC, which is easy to find.

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
High E-E-A-T for the purpose of the page

Very satisfying MC: achieves the purpose
of the page very well
Positive website reputation for the topic of
the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Satisfying MC: achieves the purpose of
the page well
Very positive website reputation for the
topic of the page
Very high E-E-A-T for the purpose of the
page

Copyright 2024

This discussion focuses on the landscaping for
a particular paludarium (an aquarium with
terrestrial and aquatic elements). There is a
lot of discussion and interaction between forum
members about the types of materials and
species used in the aquarium (effort, original or
unique content). The posts show expertise in a
niche topic aquarium landscaping (experience,
expertise).

How long a person may live with a disease
could significantly impact life decisions. This is
a YMYL topic.
This is a Q&A page on a medical question that
is well-answered by non-experts with life
experience. There are many responses
describing how long a loved one lived after
diagnosis. The focus of the page is
experience, not medical advice. Many
responses are based on personal experience
and are helpful for this topic.

The purpose of the page is to answer questions
about the usage of abbreviations, and it
contains helpful information about common
abbreviation issues. This website has a very
good reputation as a reference for information
on writing, publishing, etc. It is considered
highly authoritative and trustworthy for the topic
of the page.

81

10.0

Page Quality Rating Tasks

At first, PQ rating may seem difficult. There are several aspects of the page and the website to look at and think about.
Important: Do not struggle with each PQ rating. Please give your best rating and move on. If you are having trouble
deciding between two ratings, use the lower rating. If you are torn between three ratings, choose the one in the middle.
Do not consider the country or location of the page or website for PQ rating. For example, English (US) raters should use
the same PQ standards when rating pages from other English language websites (UK websites, Canadian websites, etc.)
as they use when rating pages from U.S. websites. In other words, English (US) raters should not lower the PQ rating
because the page location (UK, Canada) does not match the task location.
These guidelines are specific to "regular" webpages. Occasionally, you may be asked to rate a landing page that is not a
webpage. For example, you may be asked to rate a PDF file, a PNG or JPEG image file, etc. When the landing page of
the URL is not a webpage, some of the criteria in these guidelines may not apply. In this case, please use your judgment.
Finally, this Page Quality Rating Guideline does not completely cover every aspect of page quality. If you find pages that
you truly believe to be High or Low quality, please rate them as such, even if the reason is based on something not
covered in these guidelines. Please use the comment section to explain your reasoning. As always, use your judgment.

10.1

Instructions for Rating Page Quality Tasks

The Page Quality task page is broken up into several parts:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Some initial questions about the task landing page.
A “PQ grid” to record your observations about PQ characteristics of the landing page.
The Overall PQ rating slider which records your Overall PQ rating.
A comment box to explain your rating.

Some results to the initial questions will end the task early. If the page is Porn, Foreign Language, Did Not Load, or
consists of restricted or inaccessible MC (e.g., subscription is required to view MC), you will not fill in the PQ grid or assign
an overall rating.
●
●

Foreign Language should not be used when the language on the landing page is in the task language, a
language that is commonly used by a significant percentage of the population in the task location, or English.
Did Not Load should be used for pages where there is absolutely no content on the page created by the website.
There is no MC, SC, or Ads on the page. See this Wikipedia article for descriptions of different types of error
messages.

The PQ grid is designed to be your "note pad." It allows you to record your observations about the landing page and the
website it belongs to.

Copyright 2024

82

11.0

Page Quality Rating FAQs

Question

Answer

Why do we have to do all
these steps? This takes a
long time!

With practice, the amount of time needed for accurate PQ ratings will decrease. The
steps are important and are designed to help you assess many different aspects of PQ.
You may be surprised by what you find. Pages that initially look Low quality may turn
out to be Medium or High quality with careful inspection. The reverse may happen as
well. We want your most informed, thoughtful opinion.

Are we just giving High
quality ratings to pages that
“look” good?

No! The goal is to do the exact opposite. These steps are designed to help you
analyze the page without using a superficial “does it look good?” approach.
Sharing a personal experience or opinion can be a beneficial purpose as it allows
people to appreciate different perspectives. Content on the Internet can help people
understand why others think and feel the way they do.

Is sharing a personal
experience or opinion a
beneficial purpose? What if
the personal opinion is
upsetting or offensive?

It can be valuable to see the opinions and perspectives of others, even when they are
off-putting, distasteful, upsetting, or offensive to you personally. Apply the standards of
these guidelines rather than your own personal opinions or views.
However, sometimes opinions and perspectives can spread misleading information or
otherwise have the potential to cause harm. Therefore, apply the standards in these
guidelines to all types of pages and content.
Remember: Your assessment of harm happens before and overrides other
considerations such as the life experience or expertise of the content creator.

Can life experience justify a
Highest quality rating for a
page on a YMYL topic?

Factual information and advice on YMYL topics should come from experts. Sharing life
experience on YMYL topics can be Highest quality, but it must be trustworthy, safe,
consistent with well-established expert consensus, and speak to topics that life
experience is valuable for.
For example, information about when and where to vote is a YMYL topic. It's possible
to have a Highest quality page that shares life experience about voting, such as an
inspiring personal post about becoming a citizen and voting for the first time. However,
if a page about someone's voting experience gives inaccurate information about when
and where to vote either deliberately or through careless oversight, the page should be
rated Lowest because it could cause others to miss the opportunity to vote.
Remember that we are not just talking about formal expertise. Informal expertise is
equally important, and for some topics may be a more common type of E-E-A-T.

You talked about expertise
when rating MC. Does
expertise matter for all
topics? Aren't there some
topics for which there are
no experts?

For most page purposes and topics, you can find experts even when the field itself is
niche or non-mainstream. For example, there are expert alternative medicine websites
created by leading practitioners of acupuncture, herbal therapy, etc. There are also
pages about alternative medicine written by people with no expertise or experience.
E-E-A-T should differentiate between these two scenarios.
Reminder: If the page is harmful to people or society, untrustworthy, or spammy as
defined in these guidelines, expertise and experience doesn't matter. It should be rated
Lowest.

Copyright 2024

83

Question

When I think about E-E-A-T,
it seems like expertise and
experience overlap a lot.
What's the difference?

Answer
Here's one way to think about it:
● Expertise often involves objective, testable knowledge or skills, for example:
can you calculate the load bearing weight of a bridge?
● Experience can be more subjective and is often shared through personal
narration, for example: how does it feel to experience love for another person?
For PQ rating, it's not important to distinguish between expertise and experience.
Instead, focus on what kind of content is trustworthy and satisfying for the purpose of
the page. You may find that both expertise and experience can be trustworthy and
satisfying for the same topic. For example, a medical website may be a trustworthy
source for treatment options, and the experiences of other people who have gone
through treatment may provide emotional support and prepare you for what to expect.
For almost any type of page or informational topic, there is a range of content quality.

Aren't some types of pages
always Low quality, such as
celebrity gossip?

For example, there are both High and Low quality celebrity gossip pages. The purpose
of these pages is to share interesting, accurate information about celebrities. There
may be benefits in celebrity stories that inspire others or help people going through
similar challenges. A celebrity gossip page is High quality if it has accurate and
interesting information, has no characteristics of Low or Lowest quality, and comes from
a reasonably reliable source.

I've never seen a High
quality page of type X. If
there are no high quality
pages of this type, why are
we giving existing pages a
Low quality rating?

For some topics or types of pages, there may not be many (or any!) High quality pages
now, but there may be in the future. We need a uniform set of standards that apply to
all pages, even for pages that have not yet been created.

Some of these criteria seem
unfair. For example, some
art pages do not have a
purpose. Are these pages
Low quality?

Art pages do have a purpose: artistic expression. Pages created for artistic expression
do not deserve the Low quality rating simply because they have no other purpose.
Artistic expression, humor, entertainment, sharing photos and videos, etc. are all valid
and beneficial page purposes.

How should interstitials
factor into my rating?

Sometimes clicking on the task URL will bring up an interstitial page. You can ignore
this page in your rating criteria if you can easily get to the MC. However, if the
interstitial makes it extremely hard (or impossible) to get to the MC and evaluate how
well the page achieves its purpose, that should factor into your PQ rating.

Copyright 2024

84

Part 2: Understanding Search User Needs
12.0

Understanding Search Users, Queries, and Results

Why do people search the Internet?
People use Internet search engines to perform many different tasks in different environments using different types of
devices, such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops, or computers. Keep in mind that searches can be simple or complex,
and the underlying task that a person is trying to accomplish may take multiple steps to complete. For example, a simple
task may be to find the director of a movie. A complex task may be to find a movie’s showtimes nearby, purchase tickets,
and get directions to go to the theater. Overall, search engines should make it easy for people to complete tasks by
surfacing helpful results right away.

12.1

Important Rating Definitions and Ideas

User: A person who is searching. People search everywhere: people in all countries, speaking all languages; people of
all ages, genders, races, religions, political affiliations, etc.
Query: The text, image and/or other content that a user enters in a search engine search box or search app to do a
search. In these guidelines, queries have square brackets around them to look like a search box. If a user says “coffee
shops near me,” we display: [coffee shops near me]. If a user types “flights to New York” in the search box, we display:
[flights to New York]. Queries may be spoken, typed, copied and pasted, come directly from a camera or other app,
and/or be related searches that appear in search results.
There are many different types of queries because people use search to do many things, from searching for specific
websites to looking for answers to questions to browsing videos for inspiration to searching with an image to figure out
where to buy a product.
Query interpretation: The possible meaning(s) of the query or what the query may refer to. Many queries have more
than one meaning. For example, the query [apple] might refer to the computer brand or the fruit or something else.
User Intent: What the user is trying to accomplish when they search. For example, if a user searches for a movie, they
may be interested in showtimes, reviews, cast, etc. For a specific query interpretation, there may be many possible user
intents. A single user may have many different intents for a single query!

Copyright 2024

85

Locale: All queries have a locale, which is the language and region for the task. Regions are represented by a two-letter
country code, for example, "US" in the locale "English (US)". For a current list of country codes, click here. We
sometimes refer to the locale as the task location.
User Location: Sometimes more specific information about the location of the person searching is provided, usually a
city or state. In rating tasks, this information may be shown on a map. User location is very important for understanding
the query and what results are helpful for searches related to nearby places, such as [coffee shops near me]. For other
searches such as [how does gravity work], user location is not important at all, as gravity works the same way
everywhere.
Search Engine Results Page (SERP): The page a search engine shows after a user enters a query in the search box.
The SERP is made up of result blocks.
Result: We will use the word result to refer to the result block and the landing page.
●

Result Block: This is an individual “block” that appears on the user’s device in response to the query. The result
block may display information in the block itself or contain links, or may do both.

●

The Landing Page (LP) is the page you see after you click a link in the result block.

12.2

Understanding the Query

Understanding the query is the first step in evaluating the task. Remember, a query is what a user types or speaks into
their device.
Some tasks include a query research link, which you should use if you don’t understand the query or user intent.
Otherwise, please do web research using Google or an online dictionary or encyclopedia. If you still don’t understand the
query or user intent, please release the task.
Important: If you research the query on Google, please do not rely on the top results on the SERP. A query may have
other meanings not represented on Google’s search results pages. Do not assign a high rating to a webpage just
because it appears at the top of a list of search results on Google.
Think about users in your locale typing or speaking the following queries into their phone.
Query

User Intent

[population of paris], English (US)

Find the current population of Paris, France.

[starbucks near me], English (US)

Find the nearest Starbucks location.

[weather], English (US)

Find weather information in the user location right now.

Copyright 2024

86

12.3

Locale and User Location

All queries have a task language and task location (referred to in rating tasks as the "Locale"). The locale is important for
understanding the query and user intent. Users in different locales may have different expectations for the same query.

Some tasks show a user location in addition to a locale.
However, for many or most queries in a given locale, the user location does not change our understanding of the query
and user intent. Here are some examples: [facebook.com], [pictures of kittens], [distance between the earth and the
moon].
When is the locale or user location important in understanding query interpretation and user intent? Please use both web
research and your personal judgment to answer this question. Ask yourself, “Would people in one city or country be
looking for something different than people in another city or country?”

Copyright 2024

87

12.4

Queries with an Explicit Location

Sometimes people tell search engines exactly what kinds of results they are looking for by adding the desired location in
the query, regardless of their own location. We'll call this location inside the query the “explicit location.” The explicit
location makes queries much easier to understand and interpret.

p é “My mom is coming
to visit. I need to find a
hotel for her nearby”

Query: [Dallas hotels]
Locale: English (US)
User Location: Dallas,TX
Explicit Location: Dallas

p é “I need a hotel for my
trip to New York”

Query: [New York hotels]
Locale: English (US)
User Location: Dallas,TX
Explicit Location: New York

Sometimes the explicit location matches the user location or locale, and sometimes it doesn't.
When there is an explicit location in the query, pay attention to it! People use explicit locations to indicate exactly what
they are looking for.

Copyright 2024

88

12.5

Queries with Multiple Meanings

Many queries have more than one meaning. For example, the query [apple] might refer to the computer brand or the fruit.
We will call these possible meanings query interpretations.
Dominant Interpretation: The dominant interpretation of a query is what most users mean when they type the query. Not
all queries have a dominant interpretation. The dominant interpretation should be clear to you, especially after doing a
little web research.
Common Interpretation: A common interpretation of a query is what many or some users mean when they type a query.
A query can have multiple common interpretations.
Minor Interpretation: Sometimes you will find less common interpretations. These are interpretations that fewer users
have in mind. We will call these minor interpretations.
●

Reasonable minor interpretations: Reasonable minor interpretations may help fewer users, but they still are
helpful to have in a set of results because different users may want different things.

●

Unlikely minor interpretations: An unlikely minor interpretation is an interpretation that is in theory possible but
is very unlikely - very few users are likely to have this in mind.

No chance interpretation: An interpretation so unlikely that almost no user would have this in mind. Results for no
chance interpretations feel off-topic even if they match the query words. For example, almost no one wants a result about
an overheated pet for the English US query [hot dog].

Copyright 2024

89

Query: [apple]
Locale: English (US)
Note: There are many interpretations for this query; only a few are shown for the purposes of this example.
Computer company

Dominant Interpretation

Fruit

Person’s name

Common Interpretations

City

Unlikely Minor Interpretation

Query: [mercury]
Locale: English (US)
Note: There are many interpretations for this query; only a few are shown for the purposes of this example.
Planet

Chemical
Element

Common Interpretations

Insurance
company

Boat engine
company

Reasonable Minor
Interpretations

Copyright 2024

British aircraft
designed during WWII

Unlikely Minor Interpretations

90

12.6

Query Meanings Can Change Over Time

Remember to think about the query and its current meaning as you are rating. We will assume users are looking for
current information about a topic, the most recent product model, the most recent occurrence of a recurring event, etc.,
unless otherwise specified by the query.
User in 1994

User in 2004

Query: [George
Bush]
Locale: English (US)

Query: [George
Bush]
Locale: English (US)

41st US president

43rd US president

pé

pé

User in 2007

User in 2022

Query: [iphone]
Locale: English (US)

Query: [iphone]
Locale: English (US)
iphone 13

iphone 1

pé

pé

The interpretation of the query [iphone], English (US) has changed over time as new iPhone models are released. The
first iPhone was introduced in 2007. Users searching for [iphone], English (US) at that time were looking for the new (at
the time) first iPhone model. Most users now are looking for the most recent or upcoming iPhone model. In the future,
new models will come out and the dominant interpretation will change again.

12.7

Understanding User Intent

It can be helpful to think of queries as having one or more of the following intents.
●
●
●
●

Know query, some of which are Know Simple queries
Do query, when the user is trying to accomplish a goal or engage in an activity
Website query, when the user is looking for a specific website or webpage
Visit-in-person query, some of which are looking for a specific business or organization, some of which are
looking for a category of businesses
Copyright 2024

91

12.7.1 Know and Know Simple Queries
The intent of a Know query is to find information or explore a topic. Users want to Know more about something.
Know Simple queries are a special type of Know query. Know Simple queries seek a very specific answer, like a fact,
diagram, etc. This answer has to be correct and complete, and can be displayed in a relatively small amount of space.
As a general rule, if most people would agree on a correct answer, and it would fit in 1-2 sentences or a short list of items,
the query can be called a Know Simple query.
Know Simple queries may be questions such as [how tall is barack obama]. Frequently, Know Simple queries do not
have question words. For example, [barack obama height] has the same user intent as [how tall is barack obama], but is
not in a question format.
Most queries are not Know Simple queries, such as:
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

Broad, complex, and/or in-depth informational queries that do not have a short answer
Ambiguous or unclear informational queries
Informational queries on controversial topics
Informational queries with no definitive “right answer”
Queries where different users may want different types of information, or different sources of information
Queries where users want to browse or explore a topic
Queries where users want to find inspiration or ideas related to a topic
Queries where users are seeking personal opinions and perspectives from real people

Here are some examples where the Know Simple query asks for a simple fact, which can be answered correctly and
completely in a small amount of space, and the Know query answer is more complex.
Know Simple Query

Know Query

Explanation

[barack obama height]
[how tall is obama]

[barack obama]

The Know query is a broad information query and different
users may be looking for different things (e.g., biography,
books, social media posts, etc.).

[new york city population 2013]

[new york city]

The Know query is a broad information query and different
users may be looking for different things (e.g., tourist and trip
planning information, facts, photographs, history).

[who is graves disease named
after]

[graves disease]

The Know query is a broad query for medical information
and different users may have different needs. There is no
single “answer” for this query.

[macy’s store hours]

[macy’s gift wrap options]

The Know query is a broad query for a particular service
offered by a department store, and does not have a short
answer.

[what is the symbol for the
element nickel]

[what nickel is used for]

The Know query is a broad query and there is no short,
complete answer.

[who won the 2014 bcs national
championship game]

[who is going to win the bcs
national championship game]

The Know query asks for an opinion and there is no
definitive answer.

[what is starbucks stock price]

Even though the Know query is theoretically a yes/no
[should i invest in starbucks stock] question, there is not a single answer that everyone would
agree on.

Copyright 2024

92

Know Simple Query

[weather]

Know Query

Explanation

[how do people predict the
weather]

The query [weather] may seem like a broad information
query, but most people likely have a fairly simple
informational need: to find the current or upcoming
temperature, and the chance of local weather events such as
rain or snow. Therefore, consider queries like [weather],
[weather today], [weather tomorrow], [weather this week] to
be Know Simple queries.
In contrast, the Know query is a broad information query and
different users may be looking for different things.

[what is a bowl cut]

[what is the social security
retirement age]

[hair styles for men with round
faces]

Users who issue the Know query are likely seeking
inspiration for a new hair style. There is no definitive right
answer for this query.

[retirement planning]

The Know query is about a complicated and situational topic.
Many users would issue this query with the intent of broadly
exploring the topic, and different users would be better
served by different information.

12.7.2 Do Queries
The intent of a Do query is to accomplish a goal or engage in an activity. The goal or activity may be to download, to buy,
to obtain, to be entertained by, or to interact with a website or app. Do queries may have a specific need to be
immediately accomplished or they may be more open ended and involve browsing and subsequent searches to ultimately
accomplish the goal.
Note that the line between Do and Know queries is sometimes blurry, with some queries fitting into both categories. Don't
worry about strictly differentiating between these two categories. They're given to illustrate some big-picture patterns in
user intents, and many queries do not fit neatly into one and only one of these categories.
Here are some examples of Do Queries.
Query

Likely User Intent

[get my GED online]

Obtain U.S. high school equivalency diploma online.

[online personality test]

Take an online personality test.

[what is my bmi?]

Calculate BMI (body mass index).

[pay parking ticket]

Pay for a parking ticket.

[watch stranger things]

Watch the TV show “Stranger Things”.

[shape of you video]

Watch the music video for the song “Shape of You” by Ed Sheeran

[music videos]

The user did not ask for a specific music video, but this query still has a likely Do intent because
the user most likely issued the query with the intent of watching at least one music video after
browsing options in the search results.
Browse the web for ideas on ways to organize a small bathroom

[small bathroom organization
ideas]

Note: This is an open-ended Do query where different kinds of content could be helpful. Some
users may want to browse images and video to find visual inspiration, some may want to read
how-to guides, and others may be interested in both.

Copyright 2024

93

12.7.3 Website Queries
The intent of a Website query is to locate a specific website or webpage that users have requested. This single webpage
is called the target of the query.
One type of Website query is a URL Query, which can be:
●
●

Exact, perfectly-formed, working URLs, such as [http://www.ibm.com] or [www.ibm.com] or [ibm.com].
Imperfect URL queries: Queries that look like URL queries, but are not “working URLs”. These URLs do not load
if you type or paste them into your browser address bar. Even so, we believe users have a specific page in mind.

Here are some examples.
Query

Likely User Intent

[reddit login]

View the login page for Reddit.

[tiktok]

View the TikTok website.

[yahoo mail]

View the Yahoo Mail website.

[walmart.com]

View the Walmart website.

[feathermobility.com feather 13.5 lbs. wheelchair]

View the Feather 13.5 lbs. wheelchair product page on the Feather Chair
website.

Copyright 2024

94

12.7.4 Visit-in-Person Queries and User Location
People use search engines to look for Visit-in-Person information, such as finding nearby coffee shops, gas stations,
ATMs, restaurants, etc.
Some queries clearly “ask” for nearby information or nearby results (e.g., businesses, organizations, other nearby places).
Some queries are not asking for nearby information or nearby results. Here are some examples.
Queries with Visit-in-Person Intent

Query with Non-Visit-in-Person Intent

p é “I want to find a car repair

p é “How tall is Mount Everest?”

shop.”

Query: [how tall is mt everest]
Locale: English (US)

Query: [car repair shop]
Locale: English (US)

p é “I need to find a gas

p é “I would like to take an IQ

station right away!”

test online.”

Query: [gas stations]
Locale: English (US)

Query: [iq test]
Locale: English (US)

More examples: [pizza], [yoga class], [grocery stores], [movie
showtimes], [car repair], [dentists], [bank of america atm
locations], [library near me]

More examples: [boston red sox], [scrabble cheat], [definition of
sedentary], [aapl], [beyonce], [minecraft], [small dog breeds],
[dance videos], [oscars], [silly jokes], [bank of america login]

Copyright 2024

95

And some queries could go either way. Some users may want nearby results and others may not.

p é “I want to go to a

p é “I want to shop online

Query: [walmart]
Locale: English (US)

Query: [walmart]
Locale: English (US)

Walmart near me.”

on the Walmart website”

Here are some examples of queries with both visit-in-person and non-visit-in-person intent:
●
●
●
●
●
●

[hotels]
[post office]
[h&m]
[library]
[bank of america]
[the gap]

Sometimes, the user location can change our understanding of the query. For users close to Austin, Texas, the query
[verbena] could have two different interpretations: a popular restaurant named Verbena or the plant verbena.

p é “What is the address

p é “I want to learn more

Query: [verbena]
Locale: English (US)
User Location: Austin,TX

Query: [verbena]
Locale: English (US)
User Location: Austin, TX

of Verbena?”

Copyright 2024

about the plant verbena.”

96

In most other user locations, there is no restaurant (or anything else) named Verbena and there is just one interpretation
of the query [verbena]: the plant. The Austin restaurant is not well-known outside of Austin, TX.

p é “I want to learn more about
the plant verbena.”

Query: [verbena]
Locale: English (US)
User Location: Flint, MI

Use your common sense when thinking about queries and whether they have possible visit-in-person intent.
12.7.5 Queries with Multiple User Intents
Many queries have more than one likely user intent. Please use your judgment when determining if a particular intent is
reasonable for queries with multiple intents. Because so many people search for so many things, err on the side of
considering interpretations and intents to be reasonable and doing query research as needed.

Query

Examples of Reasonable User Intent

Examples of Unlikely User Intent

[harvard]

Depending on the user need and location, users may want
to visit the official homepage (Website), get directions
(Visit-in-Person), or learn more information about the
school such as the application process or history, see
recent news, or updates on sporting events (Know).

This query is very broad. Different people may be
looking for different things. However, it's fairly unlikely
that someone is looking for a one specific Harvard
course such as "The Science and Psychology of Music"
for the broad query [harvard].

[walmart]

Users may want to go to a nearby Walmart
(Visit-in-Person) or view the homepage to shop online
(Website). Some users may want to learn more
information about the company or see recent news, social
media posts, etc (Know).

This query is very broad. Different people may be
looking for different things. However, it's fairly unlikely
that someone is looking for a news article on Walmart's
charitable donations from 2001 for the query [walmart].

Copyright 2024

97

12.8

Understanding Result Blocks

The following sections contain examples of different types of queries and results.
12.8.1 Web Search Result Block Examples
Web Search Result Blocks typically have a title link, a URL and a “snippet” of text describing the page. For many queries,
Web Search Result Blocks are the most helpful type of result.
Query and User Intent

Web Search Result Block

Query: [cuisinart food processor reviews]
User Intent: This is a Know query. The user
wants to find recent reviews of Cuisinart food
processors.
Result: This is a Web Search Result Block
that has a link to a landing page with Cuisinart
reviews.

Query: [broadway tickets]
User Intent: This is a Know query or Do
query. The user wants to search prices and/or
purchase tickets to a Broadway show in New
York City.

Copyright 2024

98

12.8.2 Special Content Result Block Examples
Special Content Result Blocks (SCRBs) appear in the search results page, along with Web Search Result Blocks.
Special Content Result Blocks are designed to show content directly to users on the search results page. From working
calculators to playable videos to interactive weather information, these results help users immediately get information or
content. Some SCRBs may also have links to landing pages.
Important: Please assume that any interactive features work and function properly. Some notes:
●

All result blocks are “screenshots” or images of search results with prominent links enabled. Unfortunately, a
screenshot or image of an interactive result block will not function as it would for a real user. For the purpose of
rating, please assume that interactive result blocks do function as intended. Try to interact with the result
block as some links, buttons, or other features may work.

●

There may be a delay between when the rating task is created and when you actually rate the block, causing
some information in special content result blocks to be a few hours or even days out of date. Stock price or
weather informational blocks are designed to give users extremely current and timely information. However, due
to a delay in rating time, the information may no longer be accurate. Don’t penalize a special content result block
for being out of date. Assume that the blocks show current information for users, unless instructed
otherwise.

Query and User Intent

Special Content Result Block

Query: [weather]
User Location: Chicago, Illinois
User Intent: This is a Know Simple query
since users have a fairly simple informational
need: find the current temperature and chance
of rain or snow. The user wants to know the
weather for the User Location.
Note: Assume the block shows current
information for users.

Copyright 2024

99

Query and User Intent

Special Content Result Block

Query: [emma stone movies]
User Intent: This is a Know query. The user
wants to get information on movies with Emma
Stone.
Result: In this result block, users can
immediately see some popular movies starring
Emma Stone, with an option to click on the
links to learn more about each movie. Users
can also swipe to see a list of more movies.

Query: [calories in a banana]
User Intent: This is a Know Simple query.
The user wants to find out how many calories
are in a banana.

Copyright 2024

100

Query and User Intent

Special Content Result Block

Query: [NFL scores]
User Intent: This is a Know query. The user
wants to find the most recent National Football
League scores.

Query: [coldplay fix you video]
User Intent: This is a Do query. The user
wants to watch the music video for the song
“Fix You” by Coldplay.
Result: By clicking on this result block, users
can play the music video for the song, learn
more about the artist/album, etc.

Copyright 2024

101

Query and User Intent

Special Content Result Block

Query: [what is the tallest tree]
User Intent: This is a Know Simple query.
The user wants to know what type of tree is
the tallest.

Copyright 2024

102

Part 3: Needs Met Rating Guideline
13.0

Rating Using the Needs Met Scale

There are many different kinds of queries and results, but the process of rating is the same: Needs Met rating tasks ask
you to focus on user needs and think about how helpful and satisfying the result is for the users.
This is what the Needs Met rating slider looks like:

Rating

Description

Fully Meets (FullyM)

A special rating category, which only applies to queries with clear intent to find one specific
result and the corresponding specific result the user is looking for.

Highly Meets (HM)

A very helpful result for any dominant, common or reasonable minor query interpretation/user
intent.

Moderately Meets (MM)

A helpful result for any dominant, common or reasonable minor query interpretation/user
intent.

Slightly Meets (SM)

A less helpful result for a dominant, common or reasonable minor interpretation/user intent
OR a helpful result for an unlikely minor query interpretation/user intent.

Fails to Meet (FailsM)

A result that completely fails to meet the needs of all or almost all users. For example, the
result may be off-topic for the query or address a no chance interpretation of the query.

Use in-between ratings if you think the rating of a result falls between two labels. You can either drag the slider or click on
the point that you want the slider to land on.

Copyright 2024

103

13.1

Rating Result Blocks: Block Content and Landing Pages

For Needs Met rating, you will assign a rating to each result. Each result includes the content inside the result block and
landing pages associated with the result.
Which part of the result do you rate? If a rating task specifically asks you to rate the Landing Page Needs Met or the
Block Content Needs Met of each result, then you should follow the guidance in Section 13.1.1. Unless these specific
versions of Needs Met ratings are requested, you should follow the guidance below:
Type of Block
Special Content Result Block
(SCRB)
Note: Assume that interactive
result blocks function as intended.
Try to interact with the result block
as some links, buttons, or other
features in your rating task may
work.
Web Search Result Block

What to Rate
The content inside this type of block should always play a large role in your rating.
Some Special Content Result Blocks may have links to landing pages. In these
cases, think about whether a user would click on the link in order to satisfy their
user need.
●
●

If most users would not click, rate the Special Content Result Block based
on the block content alone.
If some or many users would click, you may consider the helpfulness of the
landing page(s) in addition to the content in the block. In this case, both
need to be helpful to justify a high rating.

A click is required, and you should evaluate the landing page to assign a rating.

Copyright 2024

104

For example, think about the query [what does love mean].
Result Block

Query: [what does love mean]

Rating

Most users would probably not click on
the Special Content Result Block,
because the block contains a large
amount of helpful content and has no
obvious landing page link associated
with it.

Special Content Result Block

Therefore, base your rating on the
content inside the block itself.

In this case, users would have to click on
the web search result in order to get an
answer to the question.

Web Search Result Block

Therefore, base your rating on the
content of the landing page.

Copyright 2024

105

Here are some examples of Special Content Result Blocks where the block should be rated primarily on the content inside
the block itself. As always, please use your judgment.
Query and Special Content Result Block
Query: [utopia animal hospital]

Query: [chicago weather]

Query: [calories in a banana]

Query: [how to find security code on
visa]

Query: [how did Lincoln die]

Query: [movies san francisco]

Note: The guidance in this section specifically applies to Needs Met ratings. For Special Content Result Blocks that have
landing pages, you may or may not also be asked to provide PQ ratings. In these cases, your PQ rating should always be
based on the landing page. Please refer to Section 14.0 for more about the relationship between Needs Met and Page
Quality ratings.

Copyright 2024

106

13.1.1 Landing Page Needs Met Ratings and Block Content Needs Met Ratings
In most cases, you should follow the instructions above when assigning Needs Met ratings. In some cases, though, a
rating task may include special instructions that ask you to assign Landing Page Needs Met or Block Content Needs
Met ratings. In these cases, follow the instructions below:
Type of Needs Met Rating

What to Rate

Landing Page Needs Met

Landing Page Needs Met ratings should be based exclusively on the landing
page(s) links in the result block. This applies to both SCRBs and Web Search
Result Blocks. The content that appears inside the result block should not factor
into Landing Page Needs Met ratings.
Block Content Needs Met ratings should be based exclusively on the content
inside the result block. This applies to both SCRBs and Web Search Result Blocks.
Do not click through to any landing pages when rating Block Content Needs Met;
landing page content should not factor into Block Content Needs Met ratings.

Block Content Needs Met

●
●

Needs Met

For Web Search Result Blocks, only consider the extent to which the page
title, snippet, and any visual content within the block would directly address
user need.
For SCRBs, only consider the extent to which the content within the block
would directly address user need.

Follow the instructions in Section 13.1 for standard Needs Met ratings.

Copyright 2024

107

13.2

Fully Meets (FullyM)

Fully Meets is a special rating category which only applies when all of the following are true:
●
●
●

The query interpretation and user intent is specific, clear, and unambiguous.
There is a specific website, a specific webpage, a specific know-simple fact or other specific result that all or
almost all users in the rating locale and user location are looking for.
All or almost all users in the rating locale and user location would be completely satisfied by the result.

Most queries cannot have a Fully Meets result. Most queries do not specify a single website or webpage. Most queries
are not specific enough to have a single, know-simple fact as a comprehensive answer. For most queries, different
people may want different types of results. For many queries, a single user may need to see many different results.
You will need to use your judgment to decide whether a result block can Fully Meet the user need. Here are some
scenarios when the Fully Meets rating is appropriate:
●
●

The user is clearly looking for a specific webpage or website and the result block with the specific webpage or
website Fully Meets the user’s need.
All or almost all users in the rating locale or user location who search for this query would be looking for the same,
specific fact or piece of information. The result block provides the information thoroughly, accurately, and clearly,
and is from a trustworthy source acceptable for all or almost all users. Before using the Fully Meets rating for
queries seeking a very specific fact or piece of information, you must check for accuracy and confirm that the
information is supported by expert consensus where such consensus exists.

Be conservative when using the Fully Meets rating. Even queries that seem to have a single right "answer" may benefit
from more perspectives to satisfy all or almost all users. When in doubt, use a lower rating.
Note: If a result block is very close to being fully satisfying, but the block alone may not be sufficient in order to fully satisfy
all or almost all users, a rating of Highly Meets or Highly Meets+ may be appropriate.

13.2.1 Examples of Fully Meets (FullyM) Result Blocks

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Fully Meets Explanation
The query has clear intent to go
to the amazon.com website.
While there may be other
interpretations for the query, the
dominant one is by far the
website.

Query: [amazon]
User Intent: Go to the
Amazon website.

Query: [target website]

The query has clear intent to go
to target.com.

User Intent: Go to the Target
website.

Copyright 2024

108

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Query: [titanic imdb]

Fully Meets Explanation

The query has clear intent to go
to the IMDb page for Titanic.

User Intent: Go to the IMDb
page for Titanic.

Query: [www.netflix.coom]

Even though this is an imperfect
URL query, it’s clear the user
wants to go to the Netflix
website.

User Intent: Go to the
streaming website, Netflix.

Query: [cnn health]

The query has clear intent to go
to the Health section of the
cnn.com webpage.

User Intent: Go to the Health
section of cnn.com.

The query has clear intent to
access CNN news and content.
The website has the content the
user is searching for, and fully
satisfies the user intent.

Query: [cnn]
User Intent: Go to the CNN
website.
Query: [lebron james stats
basketball- reference.com]

The query has clear intent to go
to the player statistics page for
LeBron James on a specific
website,
basketball-reference.com.

User Intent: Go to the player
statistics page for LeBron
James on a specific website.

Chef Chu’s is a Chinese
restaurant located in the user
location. This result block
shows the correct phone
number with the option to call
the number directly on the
device—it Fully Meets the user
intent.

Query: [chef chu phone
number]
User Location: Los Altos,
California
User Intent: Find the phone
number for the restaurant
called Chef Chu’s.

Note: You must check for
accuracy before using the Fully
Meets rating. You can verify
that the phone number is correct
by checking Chef Chu's official
website.

Copyright 2024

109

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Query: [how to find Mac OS
version]

Fully Meets Explanation
The result block displays the
complete and correct answer
prominently in the result block,
in a way that is easy for users to
read. The result block Fully
Meets the user need.

User Intent: Find out how to
locate the OS version of a
Mac.

The result block displays the
complete and correct answer
prominently in the result block,
in a way that is easy for users to
read—it Fully Meets the user
need.

Query: [new york city
population 2012]
User Intent: Find the
population of New York City
back in 2012.

Query: [what is the weather
forecast for today]

The result block displays the
complete and correct answer
prominently in the result block in
a way that is easy for users to
read. This result Fully Meets
the user need.

User Location:
Mountain View, California
User Intent: Find weather
forecast information for the
current day in Mountain View,
California.

Remember that we consider
weather queries, like this one, to
be a Know Simple query.

Query: [what country is
mount fuji in]

The result block displays the
complete and correct answer
prominently in the result block,
in a way that is easy for users to
read. The result block Fully
Meets the user need.

User Intent: Find the country
in which Mount Fuji is
located.

Copyright 2024

110

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Query: [chevron at shoreline
and middlefield]

Fully Meets Explanation

The intent is to visit the specific
gas station specified by the
user. This result block is for the
specified Chevron location, with
information to visit this location
in person.

User Location: Mountain
View, California
User Intent: Find the specific
gas station specified by the
user in order to visit the
location in person.

This block contains a map with
the queried address, link to get
directions, and specifies the
landmark at the well-known
address on the map (“The White
House”).
Query: [1600 pennsylvania
ave washington dc]

It’s not unusual to search for an
address (or business) that is far
from the user location. Here,
the user has explicitly asked for
a specific address in a far away
place, and this result is very
satisfying. For a query this
specific, the user location does
not change the rating.

User Location: Bakersville,
California
User Intent: Find a map,
directions, information about
what is located at this
address, etc.

Note: A range is included
because some users would be
fully satisfied with this result,
while some users would want
more information (e.g., photos, a
brief description).

Copyright 2024

111

13.2.2 Examples of Queries that Cannot Have Fully Meets Results
There are some queries that cannot have a Fully Meets result. Here are some examples.
Type of Query

Broad queries where no
single result could fully
satisfy all users

Example

No Fully Meets Result: Explanation

[knitting]

This is a broad informational query. Knitting
is an activity anyone can do and that anyone
can create a website for. Different users
may want different types of content: videos,
instructions, patterns, etc. There is no one
official source for knitting information and no
one result could satisfy most users.
Therefore, no Fully Meets result is possible
for this query.

Famous names
e.g., [barack obama]

This is a broad informational query and it is
impossible to know exactly what the user is
looking for.
There is no dominant interpretation for this
query. The following entities are all common
interpretations: Americans with Disabilities
Act, American Dental Association, and
American Diabetes Association. While each
interpretation has an official homepage,
none is Fully Meets since there is no
dominant interpretation.

[ada]

Ambiguous queries
without a clear user intent
or dominant interpretation
Non-famous people names
e.g., [sam wen]

Copyright 2024

Queries for people’s names can be tricky.
Many or most people queries do not have a
dominant interpretation. Even unusual
sounding name queries may not have a
dominant interpretation. For example, the
queries [sam wen], [tran nguyen], and [david
mease] can have no Fully Meets result
because there are multiple people with each
of these names, and it is not clear that most
users are looking for any one particular
individual.

112

13.3

Highly Meets (HM)

A rating of Highly Meets is assigned to very helpful results for any dominant, common, or reasonable minor interpretation
or user intent of the query.
Highly Meets results are highly satisfying and a good “fit” for reasonable interpretations and intents. In addition, they
often have some of the following characteristics (depending on the query):
●
●
●
●

Entertaining or enjoyable for queries with a reasonable entertainment intent
Representative of the opinions, perspectives and experience of real people for queries with no single right answer
For informational queries, very helpful results that, for example:
○ Are easy to understand the content, e.g., helpful images or videos, an easy to understand summary
○ Provide in-depth or insightful content, e.g., a deep dive explanation, an expert analysis
For queries that benefit from recently created content, fresh results that provide up-to-date content on “what
everyone is talking about right now” e.g., breaking news on a topic or the latest viral video or a hot new fashion
trend

Highly Meets results may be any type of content: articles, short form or long form video, images, social media posts,
forum discussions, etc. There is no length requirement for Highly Meets results. Sometimes what makes a result
satisfying is that it is short and easy to understand. Other results may be very satisfying because of the depth and
richness of content. For some queries, comprehensiveness may be critically important, such as queries about truly
complex topics or YMYL queries for which a short answer could be misleading.
Accuracy is required for Highly Meets informational results. Highly Meets information pages on YMYL topics must be
accurate and trustworthy. Highly Meets medical and scientific information pages must represent well-established
scientific/medical consensus unless the user is clearly seeking an alternative viewpoint.
A query can have many Highly Meets results. Search engines should strive to provide a diverse set of Highly Meets
results from a variety of websites in a variety of content types from a variety of people and perspectives. This is especially
important for queries with no single, "right answer", subjective queries, queries with multiple intents and interpretations,
queries seeking opinions and perspectives, and queries simply looking to browse or explore the web.
For most queries, Highly Meets is the highest possible rating a result can receive. Results rated Highly Meets represent
the most helpful content available for a given query interpretation and user intent. Some queries have several Highly
Meets results because there is a variety of very helpful content available on the internet that addresses reasonable query
interpretations and user intents. Other queries may have no Highly Meets results at all because very helpful content
doesn't exist on the internet or search engines are unable to find it. The standard for Highly Meets is very high.
13.3.1 Examples of Highly Meets (HM) Result Blocks

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Highly Meets Explanation
This result shows a complete list
of all three locations in the
Charlotte area, with information
that is very helpful for users who
want to visit the store.

Query: [trader joes]
User Location: Charlotte,
North Carolina
User Intent: There are
two possible user intents:
most users probably want
to visit a nearby location or
go to the website.

Note: This result block is not
Fully Meets because users who
want to go to the website to see
coupons, promotions, etc. would
have to see additional results.

Copyright 2024

113

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Highly Meets Explanation
This is the official website for
Trader Joe’s, which has
information on the businesses’
stores, promotions, recipes,
news, etc.

Query: [trader joes]
User Location: Charlotte,
North Carolina
User Intent: There are
two possible user intents:
most users probably want
to visit a nearby location or
go to the website.

Note: This result block is not
Fully Meets because users who
want information to visit the store
have to do a bit of work to find
that information—it is not
immediately available.

Query: [museum of
modern art]

This is the museum’s official
website and has very helpful
information about exhibits,
membership, the store, etc.

User Location:
Manhattan, New York
User Intent: There are
two possible user intents:
most users probably want
to visit the museum (note
that the user is located in
NYC where the museum is
located) or go to the
website.

Note: This result block is not
Fully Meets because users who
want information to visit the
museum have to do a bit of work
to find that information—it is not
immediately available.

Query: [museum of
modern art]

The result block shows
information about the museum,
and is especially helpful for users
who want to visit the museum.

User Location:
Manhattan, New York

Note: This result block is not
Fully Meets— even though there
is a website link, it is not very
satisfying for users who want to
go to the website because it is
not as informative as a web
search result block with a title,
snippet, and URL.

User Intent: There are
two possible user intents:
most users probably want
to visit the museum (note
that the user is located in
NYC where the museum is
located) or go to the
website.

Copyright 2024

114

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Highly Meets Explanation
There is only one library in the
user location (Belmont,
Massachusetts). The result
block shows information about
the library, and is especially
helpful for users who want to visit
the location.

Query: [belmont library]
User Location: Belmont,
Massachusetts

Note: This result block is not
Fully Meets— even though there
is a website link, it is not very
satisfying for users who want to
go to the website because it is
not as informative as a web
search result block with a title,
snippet, and URL.

User Intent: Find
information about this
library or go to the
website.

There is only one library in the
user location (Belmont,
California). The result block
shows information about the
library, and is especially helpful
for users who want to visit the
location.

Query: [belmont library]
User Location: Belmont,
California

Note: This result block is not
Fully Meets— even though there
is a website link, it is not very
satisfying for users who want to
go to the website because it is
not as informative as a web
search result block with a title,
snippet, and URL.

User Intent: Find
information about this
library or go to the
website.

The user intent is too broad to
have a Fully Meets result.
However, this is Celine Dion's
official website and has a lot of
content including recent news,
show information, music, photos,
videos, etc. This is a very helpful
result.

Query: [celine dion]
User Intent: Learn more
about the singer Celine
Dion.

Query: [manresa reviews]
The LP for this web result has
127 reviews for the restaurant.
The first three reviews show
automatically, and then you can
click to see more. This is a very
helpful result.

User Location: San Jose,
California
User Intent: Find reviews
for this restaurant located
in Los Gatos, California.

Copyright 2024

115

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Highly Meets Explanation
The intent is to find coffee shops
near the specific user location,
represented by the blue dot on
the map.
This result block has a very
satisfying list of nearby, popular,
and prominent options within a
few miles of the specific location.
This kind of block is especially
helpful for users who want to visit
the business in person. Note
that these blocks are
interactive—clicking on a coffee
shop will give options to call the
business, get directions, read
reviews, etc.

Query: [nearby coffee
shops]
User Location:
Washington, D.C.
User Intent: Find coffee
shops near the user
location.

Note: This result is not Fully
Meets— even though this a very
helpful result block for users
seeking nearby coffee shops, it is
unlikely that every user would be
fully satisfied with this specific list
given the abundance of coffee
shops near the user location.
This is a specific Know Simple
query. The LP for this web result
provides the answer to the query
along with a lot of information
about the mountain. While the
answer can also be found in the
description of the web result, it is
not displayed prominently.

Query: [what country is
mount fuji in]
User Intent: Find the
country in which Mount
Fuji is located.

Query: [broadway tickets]
User Location: New York,
New York

The LP for this web result offers
many Broadway tickets for sale.
This is a very helpful result.

User Intent: Research
prices and/or purchase
tickets to a Broadway
show.

Copyright 2024

116

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Highly Meets Explanation
The LP for this web result offers
many kids backpacks for sale.
The company is well-known for
manufacturing and selling high
quality backpacks for kids of
different ages. There is a lot of
product information and many
user reviews for each backpack,
in addition to helpful filter
options.

Query: [kids backpacks]
User Intent: Research
prices and/or purchase
backpacks for kids.

Query: [poison ivy]

The LP for this web result
provides a lot of helpful
information about poison ivy.
This is a very helpful result.

User Intent: Find pictures
of poison ivy plants,
information about how to
treat poison ivy, etc.

Query: [michael jordan]

The LP of this web result is a
Wikipedia article about Michael
Jordan. This is a very helpful
result.

User Intent: Find
information, news, images,
etc. about Michael Jordan.

Query: [around the world
tutorial soccer]

This result is a very helpful video
tutorial demonstrating the move,
with voiceover instructions and
tips.

User Intent: Find a tutorial
of how to do the 'around
the world' soccer trick

Query: [trestle bridge]
Seeing images of trestle bridges
is very helpful in understanding
this type of bridge. In this case,
“a picture is worth a thousand
words”, meaning that a picture
may be more helpful than a text
description due to the unique
design of the bridge.

User Intent: The user
wants to understand what
a trestle bridge is or learn
more information about
them (e.g., what it looks
like, how they are built,
types of materials,
well-known examples,
etc.).

Copyright 2024

117

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Highly Meets Explanation
The result block has a good
summary of what invasive
species are. Though additional
information like examples,
impact, etc. would be helpful,
overall this is a very helpful
result.

Query: [invasive species]
User Intent: Find more
information about invasive
species.

For users in Austin, TX, the
query [verbena] could have two
different interpretations: a
popular restaurant named
Verbena or the plant verbena.
Because the user is located in
Austin, many users are probably
looking for the restaurant.
However, it is not completely
clear because some users may
want to find information about the
plant. This result about the
restaurant has satisfying
information for users who want to
visit it—the result Highly Meets
the most likely user need.

Query: [verbena]
User Location: Austin, TX
User Intent: Find
information about the
spice or the restaurant in
Austin.

This is a fan site dedicated to
Kristen Wiig. The website has
comprehensive info including
over 50,000 pictures and 300
video clips, interviews, articles,
and more. This is a very helpful
result.

Query: [kristen wiig]
User Intent: Find more
information about the
actress, comedian, writer,
and producer.

Query: [emily blunt]

This result shows popular movies
starring the actress. This is a
very helpful result for users
looking for her filmography, a
reasonable intent for the query.
Highly Meets is an appropriate
rating for this result.

User Intent: Find
biographical information
(e.g., filmography) or
current news/celebrity
gossip about Emily Blunt.

The LP for this web result
contains information about the
Apollo 11 moon landing on the
official website of NASA, which
was the organization that
oversaw this mission in 1969.
The MC has a lot of helpful
information and content,
including a detailed summary,
video footage, and images of the
moon landing that users can
view and explore. This is a very
helpful result.

Query: [1969 moon
landing]
User Intent: Find accurate
and authoritative
information about this
historical event.

Copyright 2024

118

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Highly Meets Explanation

This is a broad query for an
actress. Different users may be
looking for different things.

Query: [jennifer aniston]

This result shows recent news
about Jennifer Aniston. The
articles are timely (at the time
this was written) and relatively
interesting, and not just common
everyday news about the
actress. This is a very helpful
result for a reasonable intent.

User Intent: Find images,
recent news, information,
etc. about Jennifer
Aniston.

Query: [mentos and coke
death]

This LP is on a well-known
fact-checking and debunking
website. The page calls this
story "False", then provides a
credible explanation of how the
authors came to that conclusion,
including history of similar urban
legends. This is a very helpful
result.

User Intent: Find accurate
information about a rumor
that a mixture of Mentos
and Coca-Cola can cause
death, which was spread
on the Internet in 2006.

This discussion post includes
snippets of reviews for the
queried film by various sources.
Various participants have also
added to the discussion by
commenting on the post. This is
a very helpful result.

Query: [avatar the way of
water movie review]
User Intent: Find reviews
of the 2022 film Avatar:
The Way of Water.
Query: [seattle,
washington]

The result shows a map of
Seattle, Washington and clicking
on the map brings up a more
detailed map. This is a very
helpful result for a reasonable
user intent.

User Intent: Find
information, news, maps,
etc. related to Seattle,
Washington.

Copyright 2024

119

13.4

Moderately Meets (MM)

A rating of Moderately Meets is assigned to helpful results for any reasonable interpretation or user intent of the query,
including reasonable minor interpretations and intents.
Moderately Meets results have fewer valuable attributes than Highly Meets results. Moderately Meets results should
still “fit” the query, but they are less satisfying than Highly Meets results. For example:
●
●
●

Moderately Meets results may be less representative of the opinions, perspectives and experience of real people
for queries with no single right answer
For informational queries, Moderately Meets results might have content that is slightly harder to understand than
Highly Meets results
Moderately Meets results may be a slightly out of date for queries that benefit from recently created content

A query can have many Moderately Meets results. Moderately Meets results exist in all formats (video, audio, text,
image) and on many types of websites: professional websites, corporate websites, forums, social media, etc.
Moderately Meets is an acceptable rating if you see aspects of the result that are Highly Meets but other aspects seem
Slightly Meets.
There is nothing "wrong" with Moderately Meets results. Moderately Meets results are not out-of-date or inaccurate.
Moderately Meets results are generally average to good.
13.4.1 Examples of Moderately Meets (MM) Result Blocks
Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Moderately Meets
Explanation
This is a cute short (14 second)
video of a baby emperor penguin
walking to a fully-grown emperor
penguin.

Query: [emperor penguin]

This is a helpful result for the
reasonable interpretation and
intent to find cute photos or
videos of emperor penguins.
However, the result is not very
satisfying or very helpful for this
query. Moderately Meets is
appropriate.

User intent: Find
information, photos, or
videos about emperor
penguins.

This is a helpful result for the
reasonable interpretation and
intent to know what states border
Virginia. However, the result is
not very helpful as it lacks visual
information (e.g., map).
Moderately Meets is
appropriate.

Query: [where is virginia
in the us]
User Intent: Find where
the state of Virginia is
located in the U.S.

Copyright 2024

120

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Moderately Meets
Explanation
This is a helpful result as it is
Kristen Wiig’s official website.
However, the result is not very
helpful because there is little
content and has not been
updated in years. Moderately
Meets is appropriate.

Query: [kristen wiig]
User Intent: Find more
information about the
actress, comedian, writer,
and producer.

Copyright 2024

121

13.5

Slightly Meets (SM)

A rating of Slightly Meets is assigned to results that are less helpful for a reasonable query interpretation or user intent.
A rating of Slightly Meets is also assigned to a helpful result for an unlikely query interpretation or intent or be related to
the user’s information need without directly addressing the core of the need. Slightly Meets results may have some
aspect that prevents a higher rating, for example they may have outdated information. Slightly Meets results may not
fully address an important part of the query or otherwise be less helpful for users.
A query can have many Slightly Meets results. Slightly Meets results exist in all formats (video, audio, text, image) and
on many types of websites: professional websites, corporate websites, forums, social media, etc.
Often there is nothing "wrong" with Slightly Meets results - they may simply be a less helpful "fit" for the particular query
in the rating task. A Slightly Meets result for one query may be a Highly Meets result for a different query.
Important: Many users decide which result to click or tap on based on the content in the result block, such as the title of
the web result on the search results page. (Note that these titles usually come from webpages.) A result with a very
misleading or exaggerated title should be rated Slightly Meets or lower, due to the poor user experience that occurs
when the landing page does not match the expectation of the user when clicking or tapping on the result.
13.5.1 Examples of Slightly Meets (SM) Result Blocks
Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Query: [britney spears]

Slightly Meets Explanation
The LP of this web result has a
2006 article about Britney Spears
filing for divorce. This is very old,
stale news, making this result
less helpful for users.

User Intent: Find
information about Britney
Spears (e.g., current
news, pictures).

Although the LP has
comprehensive information from
a reputable source, the
information is about the 2010
Honda Odyssey. This
information would be considered
stale for the query today, making
this result less helpful for users.

Query: [honda odyssey]
User Intent: We will
assume that users are
interested in the current
Honda Odyssey model,
unless specified otherwise.

The LP of this web result is about
the movie “Hot Dog,” an obscure
film which came out in 1984.
Even though the landing page
has good content, this is an
unlikely minor interpretation of
this query.

Query: [hot dog]
User Intent: Find
information about hot
dogs, such as recipes or
nutrition information.

Query: [what type of
sharks live in rivers]

This result block does not
contain enough information to be
fully satisfying and mentions only
one type of shark. This is not a
very helpful result.

User Intent: Find
information about what
types of sharks live in
rivers.

Copyright 2024

122

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Query: [ibm]

Slightly Meets Explanation

This block contains images of the
logo for IBM. These images are
not a very helpful result for an
unlikely minor intent of the query.

User Intent: Go to the
IBM website or find
information about the
company.

Copyright 2024

123

13.6

Fails to Meet (FailsM)

A rating of Fails to Meet should be assigned to results that fails to meet the needs of all or almost all users. Fails to Meet
results have some aspect that causes them to be unhelpful for the query, such as a lack of attention to an aspect of the
query (or user location) that is critical for satisfying the user intent. Fails to Meet may also be used for results that have
incorrect or very outdated information. Fails to Meet results may be helpful for a no chance interpretation. Fails to Meet
results may be off-topic for any query interpretation.
Search results should never surprise people with unpleasant, upsetting, offensive, or disturbing content. For this reason,
all of the following types of content should be rated Fails to Meet if it is clear that the user is not looking for such content:
●
●
●
●
●
●

Harmful to Self or Other Individuals (Section 4.2)
Harmful to Specified Groups (Section 4.3)
Harmfully Misleading Information (Section 4.4)
Untrustworthy (Section 4.5)
Spammy (Section 4.6)
Porn (Section 15.1)

13.6.1 Examples of Fails to Meet (FailsM) Result Blocks
Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Query: [mike]

Fails to Meet Explanation
This is a broad query and it is
unclear exactly what the user is
looking for.

User Location: Eustis,
Florida

This result block shows
visit-in-person information for two
businesses that contain the
name Mike. However, the query
is very broad and it is very
unlikely these businesses are
what users seek given the query.

User Intent: Find
information about
something related to Mike.
Note: For this query, it is
unlikely users want to go
anywhere in person.

This result shows information for
a church, an event venue, and
the closest airport. However,
users clearly want to know
details about a specific flight, and
there is absolutely no information
in the block about the flight. This
result Fails to Meet the needs of
the user.

Query: [united 656]
User Intent: Find
information about flight
656 operated by United
Airlines (e.g., whether the
flight is on time, what gate
it is departing from).

Query: [german cars]

This LP is the homepage of
Subaru, a Japanese car
company, not a German car
company.

User Intent: Find
information about German
cars or go to the official
homepage of a German
automaker.

This result completely Fails to
Meet the needs of the user.

Copyright 2024

124

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Query: [company to get
rid of the possum in my
attic]

Fails to Meet Explanation
This LP is the homepage of a
pest control company in
Australia. U.S. users would need
a U.S. company to take care of
this problem. There is a
mismatch between the page and
the locale that makes this result
helpful for no users—it
completely Fails to Meet the
needs of the user.

User Location:
Naperville, Illinois
User Intent: Find a
company to trap and
remove a possum from the
attic.
Query: [starting jets
quarterback 2001]

Although this is a trustworthy
website for information about
NFL football, this LP does not
contain the information
requested by the user. This
result Fails to Meet the needs of
the user.

User Intent: Find the
name of the starting
quarterback for the New
York Jets football team in
2001.

Query: [doctor salary]
User Location: San
Francisco, California

The answer in this block is about
the cost of education, not salary,
which is misleading and doesn’t
answer the user’s query.

User Intent: Find
information about doctor
salaries.

The answer provided in this
result block is factually
inaccurate. Stairs have been a
common architectural feature of
buildings, pathways, outdoor
structures, etc. since long before
1948, and they were not invented
by a person named Werner
Bösendörfer.

Query: [who invented
stairs]
User Intent: Find out
about the origin of stairs.

Query: [batman]
It is extremely unlikely
(potentially a no chance
interpretation) that this query is
looking for information on a city
in Turkey called Batman, given
that the user is located in the
United States. This result Fails
to Meet the needs of the user.

User Location: Anaheim,
California
User Intent: Find
information about the
fictional superhero that
appears in American
comic books, movies, and
television shows.

Copyright 2024

125

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Query: [weather paris,
texas]

Fails to Meet Explanation

This result completely fails to
satisfy the user intent, which is to
find weather information for
Paris, Texas, and not Paris,
France.

User Location: Paris,
Texas
User Intent: Find current
weather information for
Paris, Texas.

Query: [go kart for sale]

This result block shows a go kart
arcade in Warrington,
Pennsylvania, and two other go
kart arcades in the surrounding
area. These arcades are places
to go ride go karts, not purchase
them, so the result completely
Fails to Meet the user intent.

User Location:
Warrington, Pennsylvania
User Intent: Find go karts
for sale in the Warrington,
Pennsylvania area.

Query: [ralphs]
User Location: San
Clemente, California

Ralphs is a nationwide
supermarket chain. These
locations are all in San Diego,
California, which is a major city
south of the user location (about
60 miles away). These results
are too far to be helpful.

User Intent: There are
two possible user intents:
most users probably want
to visit a nearby Ralphs
location or go to the
website.

Copyright 2024

126

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Fails to Meet Explanation
Users issuing this query want to
go to the Amazon website.
Showing information about how
to visit or call the corporate office
for an online company would not
be helpful. At the time this
example was written, the
Amazon corporate office was not
open to the public; very, very few
people ever go to an Amazon
corporate office. If someone
needed to go to the office for an
interview or business visit, they
would need to get that
information from someone at the
company or would use a more
specific query.

Query: [amazon]
User Location: Austin,
Texas
User Intent: Go to the
Amazon website.

Query: [what is the closest
large city]
A news result is completely
unhelpful for this query. This
result Fails to Meet the needs of
the user.

User Location: Myrtle
Beach, South Carolina
User Intent: Find the
closest large city to Myrtle
Beach, South Carolina.

This LP is about the 2004
Australian Open, not the 2008
Australian Open. It does not pay
attention to an aspect of the
query that is important for
satisfying user intent (i.e., 2008).
The result Fails to Meet the user
intent.

Query: [australian open
mens singles result 2008]
User Intent: Find a page
that displays the 2008
men’s singles result for
this tennis tournament.
Query: [tooth loss five
years old]

This LP has information about
tooth loss in pike fish and has the
words “five years old” on the
page. This result Fails to Meet
the user intent because it has
keyword matches only and is
unhelpful for the query.

User Intent: Find
information about tooth
loss in a five-year-old
child.
Query: [what is wedding in
spanish]

The translation in the result block
is completely wrong and
inaccurate.

User Intent: Find how to
say the word “wedding” in
Spanish.

Mañana means “tomorrow,” not
“wedding.”

Copyright 2024

127

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Fails to Meet Explanation
The LP is a humorous blog post
about a wife helping her husband
to buy a suit. The page mentions
“American Express,” but is
insufficiently related to the query
to be helpful for users, so it Fails
to Meet the user intent.

Query: [american express]
User Intent: Go to the
American Express card
website or get information
about the company and its
products and services.

Note: Even if this blog post were
more recent, it would still fail to
meet the user intent.

Query: [how to quit
smoking]

This LP has gibberish text. Read
this sentence: “How do you make
a cigarette symbol on the
keyboard? In.” This result is
unhelpful for the query.

User Intent: Find
information on ways to quit
smoking.

Remember that you should
check for the factual accuracy of
answers. For this result, go to
the company’s page at
www.aircanada.com/en/customer
care/int/ and select USA to check
the number shown here.
According to the airline’s website,
the correct phone number is
1-888-247-2262. Because this
answer is incorrect, it should be
rated Fails to Meet.

Query: [air canada phone
number]
User Intent: Find the
customer service phone
number for the airline Air
Canada.

Miley Cyrus was alive at the time
this example was written. This
LP is an article written by an
unknown author that was
designed to look like a news
story and falsely states that she
died. The article has not been
updated, clarified, or removed
even days after having been
proven false. This result is
useless so it should be rated
Fails to Meet.

Query: [miley cyrus]
User Intent: Find
information about the
American singer/actress
Miley Cyrus, such as
biographical info,
discography/filmography,
current news, etc.

Remember: Just because a
website has the look and feel of
a traditional news site does NOT
mean that you should consider
the reporting to be factually
accurate without further
research. Watch out for sites
that present themselves as
news, but were actually created
with the intent to mislead or
misinform users.

Copyright 2024

128

Query and User Intent

Result

Rating

Fails to Meet Explanation
This LP is a blog post presenting
a factually unsupported
conspiracy theory that Angela
Merkel is the daughter of Adolph
Hitler. Because the MC is
inaccurate and misleading, it
completely Fails to Meet the
user intent, even though the topic
of the page matches the query.

Query: [who is hitler's
daughter]
User Intent: Find the
name of or information
about Adolf Hitler's
daughter, if Hitler in fact
had a daughter.

Note: A more helpful result for
this query might confirm that
Adolf Hitler had no children, or
provide information on the novel
Hitler's Daughter by Jackie
French.

Copyright 2024

129

14.0

The Relationship between Page Quality and Needs Met

The Needs Met rating is based on both the query and the result. You must carefully think about the query and user intent
when assigning a Needs Met rating.

The Page Quality rating slider does not depend on the query. Do not think about the query when assigning a Page
Quality rating to the LP.

Some results don’t have a Page Quality slider. If a result block has no Page Quality rating slider, you do not have to give
a Page Quality rating. If there is a Page Quality slider, please assign a Page Quality rating based on the landing page.
Here is some guidance about assigning Needs Met and Page Quality ratings:
●

Useless results should always be rated FailsM, even if the landing page has a high Page Quality rating. Useless
is useless.

●

The HM rating is not appropriate if a page is untrustworthy or has any other undesirable characteristics, such as
outdated or inaccurate information. There are very high standards for the HM rating.

●

A page can have such low Page Quality that it is unhelpful or even harmful, such as gibberish pages or scams.
These types of extremely low quality pages should be rated FailsM because the Page Quality issues interfere
with helpfulness. (An exception is queries with clear website intent, where the target website should be rated
FullyM. People are allowed to search for any website and search engines should honor that intent when it is
clear.)

Copyright 2024

130

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating, Page Quality Rating

Explanation
Needs Met: Even though the
article is topical, the information is
not trustworthy and is potentially
misleading or harmful. This result
is unhelpful for the query.
Page Quality: This is a YMYL
topic. This page has no evidence
of medical expertise/authority and
is not trustworthy.

Query: [symptoms of
dehydration]
User Intent: Find
information about the
symptoms of
dehydration.

Needs Met: This is a very helpful
result for the query.
Page Quality: This is a YMYL
topic. This page is on a highly
authoritative medical website and
has a lot of reliable and accurate
MC. This page is very
trustworthy.

Needs Met: This block shows the
number of octaves on a piano, not
a guitar. Even though this block
has a link to a high quality landing
page about pianos, the
information shown in the block is
inaccurate with respect to the
query. This result Fails to Meet
the user need.

Query: [how many
octaves on a guitar]
User Intent: Find out the
number of octaves on a
guitar.

Page Quality: There is a lot of
helpful MC on the landing page.
The page has medium to high
E-E-A-T. Medium+ to High is an
appropriate rating.

Copyright 2024

131

15.0

Rating Porn, Foreign Language, and Did Not Load Results

You will be asked to assign Porn, Foreign Language, and Did Not Load flags to result blocks when appropriate. Some
rating tasks may also ask you to identify Upsetting-Offensive and/or Not-for-Everyone results.
All flags should be assigned based on the result alone and do not depend on the query. Here is a screenshot of the flags:

Click on the flag name to select it. The flag will turn red and change the “No” to “Yes.” For example, here is a result block
that shows when the Foreign Language flag should be used.
Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating, Flag

This LP is the homepage
of the Baidu website.
The result is the target
page of the query, but is
in a foreign language
(Chinese).

Query: [baidu.com]
Locale: English (US)
User Intent: Go to the
Baidu website.

15.1

Explanation

This result merits a
FullyM rating and the
Foreign Language flag.

Porn Flag

Please assign the Porn flag to all porn pages, whether the query is porn-seeking or not. The Porn flag does not depend
on the query or user intent.
This flag should be used if the content inside the result block, or the content on the LP, is pornographic, including porn
images, links, text, pop-ups, and/or prominent porn ads. An image may be considered porn in one culture or country, but
not another. Please use your judgment and knowledge of your locale.
Remember: The Porn flag is used to indicate that the result is porn. It doesn’t matter whether the query “asks for porn”.

15.2

Needs Met Rating for Porn Results

15.2.1 Needs Met Rating for Clear Non-Porn Intent Queries
If the user intent is clearly not porn-seeking, a landing page that has porn for its MC should be rated Fails to Meet.
●
●

When the user intent is clearly not porn, a porn result should be considered unhelpful or useless.
Uninvited porn is a very bad experience for many users.

The following queries should be considered non-porn intent queries: [girls], [wives], [mature women], [gay people], [people
kissing], [boy speedos], [moms and sons], [pictures of girls], [pictures of women], [mothers and daughters], [cheerleaders],
etc.

Copyright 2024

132

Remember to assign the Porn flag for all porn pages. Use your judgment and represent users in your locale.
Query

User Intent

Landing Page

Rating

Porn Flag?

[toys], English (US)

Find toys to buy.

Example
Warning – this page is porn.

FailsM

Yes

[how tall is a camel], English (US)

Find the answer to this
question about camels.

Example
Warning – this page is porn.

FailsM

Yes

[car pictures], English (US)

Find pictures of cars.

Example
Warning – this page is porn.

FailsM

Yes

15.2.2 Needs Met Rating for Possible Porn Intent Queries
Some queries have both non-porn and porn interpretations. For example, the following English (US) queries have both a
non-porn and an erotic or porn interpretation: [breast], [sex]. We will call these queries “possible porn intent” queries.
For "possible porn intent" queries, please rate as if the non-porn interpretation were dominant, even though some or many
users may be looking for porn. For example, please rate the English (US) query [breast] assuming a dominant health or
anatomy information intent.
Query

User Intent

Landing Page

Rating

Porn flag?

[breasts], English (US)

Find anatomy or health
information about breasts.

Example

HM

No

[breasts], English (US)

Find anatomy or health
information about breasts.

Example
Warning – this page is porn.

FailsM

Yes

15.2.3 Needs Met Rating for Clear Porn Intent Queries
For very clear porn intent queries, assign a rating to the porn landing page based on how helpful it is for the user. Even
though there is porn intent, the page should still be assigned a Porn flag.
Do not simply rate all porn pages for porn queries as MM or HM. Even though the query is porn and the result is porn, the
page must fit the query and be helpful to get a high Needs Met rating.
Pages that provide a poor user experience, such as pages that try to download malicious software, should also receive
low ratings, even if they have some images appropriate for the query.
Query

User Intent

Landing Page

Rating

[freeones], English (US)

Navigate to the Freeones
homepage.

Example:
http://www.freeones.com
Warning – this page is porn.

FullyM

Yes

[freeones], English (US)

Navigate to the Freeones
homepage.

Example:
http://www.baberoad.com
Warning – this page is porn.

FailsM

Yes

[anime sex pictures], English (US) Find anime sex pictures.

Example
Warning – this page is porn.

MM to HM

Yes

Example
Warning – this page is porn.

MM to HM

Yes

[cheerleader porn], English (US)

Find porn pictures of
cheerleaders.

Copyright 2024

Porn Flag?

133

15.3

Reporting Illegal Images

Child Pornography
Note: When working on rating projects in any task location or locale, you must follow United States federal law, which
considers child pornography to be illegal.
Definition of Child Pornography
An image is child pornography if it is a visual depiction of someone who appears to be a minor (i.e., under 18 years old)
engaged in sexually explicit conduct (e.g., vaginal or anal intercourse, oral sex, bestiality or masturbation as well as
lascivious depictions of the genitals), or sadistic or masochistic abuse. The image of sexually explicit conduct can involve
a real child; a computer-generated, morphed, composite or otherwise altered image that appears to be a child (think of
images that have been altered using “Photoshop”); or an adult who appears to be a child; and the image can be
non-photographic (e.g., drawings, cartoons, anime, paintings, or sculptures) so long as the subject is engaging in sexually
explicit conduct that is obscene. If it is indistinguishable from child pornography, it is child pornography.
Even if the pornographic image depicts children in a literary (think of the famous book "Lolita"), political (think of political
cartoons), artistic, or scientific context, please send the link to your employer/company as instructed below.
Depiction of the genitals does not require the genitals to be uncovered. Thus, for example, a video of underage teenage
girls dancing erotically, with multiple close-up shots of their covered genitals, or images of children with opaque underwear
that focus on the genitalia could be considered child pornography.
An image of a naked child (e.g., in the bathtub or at a nudist colony) is not considered child pornography as long as the
child is not engaging in sexually explicit conduct, or the focus is not on the child’s genitalia. Visual depictions of adults who
look like children (e.g., a 35-year-old man play-acting in diapers, or an obvious woman dressed as a school girl) are not
child pornography. If you don't think it's a minor, it probably isn’t child pornography. However, if you cannot tell that the
person in the image is over 18 (e.g., an under-developed 18-year-old whose body hair has been waxed), that is child
pornography.
Reporting Instructions
Please report images containing child pornography (URLs only) as instructed by your employer/company.

15.4

Foreign Language Flag

15.4.1 Using the Foreign Language Flag
Please do not assign the Foreign Language flag when the language on the landing page is one of the following:
●
●
●

The task language
A language that is commonly used by a significant percentage of the population in the task location
English

For example, most Catalan-speaking users in Spain also speak Spanish. Therefore, for rating tasks in Catalan (ES), the
Foreign Language flag should NOT be assigned to landing pages in Catalan, Spanish, or English.

Copyright 2024

134

Here is a screenshot of a result block that shows when the Foreign Language flag would be used.
Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating, Flag

Explanation
This LP is the homepage
of the Baidu website.
The result is the target
page of the query, but is
in a foreign language
(Chinese).

Query: [baidu]
Locale: English (US)
User Intent: Go to the
Baidu website.

This result merits a
FullyM rating and the
Foreign Language flag.

Important:
●
●
●
●

Please assign the Foreign Language flag even if you personally understand the language, but most users in
your locale do not.
Please assign the Foreign Language flag based on the language of the landing page, not the appearance of the
result block.
Please remember to flag all foreign pages with the Foreign Language flag, even if most users in your locale
would expect or want a foreign language page for the query.
Sometimes it is difficult to determine what language the landing page is in. The LP may have multiple languages
or no words at all. In these cases, try to represent users in your locale. Does it feel like a foreign language page?
When in doubt, don’t use the Foreign Language flag.

15.4.2 Needs Met Rating for Foreign Language Results
You must assign a Needs Met rating for all result blocks in your task, even if the result blocks have a foreign language
landing page.
In most cases, pages you flag as Foreign Language should be rated FailsM, because they cannot be understood by
most users in your locale and are therefore useless. Remember that if users in your locale can read the language, then
you shouldn’t be using the Foreign Language flag. Occasionally, you will encounter helpful Foreign Language pages.
If the query clearly indicates that most users would expect or want a foreign language result, then the Needs Met rating of
the foreign language page should not be FailsM. For example, please assign the FullyM rating and Foreign Language
flag for baidu.com if the query is [baidu.com], English (US).
Videos are often an example where foreign language pages are helpful and desired. Think about user intent and what
pages are good for users. If the query “asks” for a foreign language song, band, film, sporting event, etc., then a video of
the song, band, film, sporting event, etc. is helpful since it can probably be understood or enjoyed even though it is in a
foreign language. For these types of queries, foreign language results are often expected.
If the video is someone talking about the song, band, film, or event, the result probably cannot be understood or enjoyed
and should be assigned a FailsM rating and the Foreign Language flag.
Note: If you are unable to evaluate the Page Quality rating of a Foreign Language result, you do not need to assign a
Page Quality rating and can leave the slider at N/A.

Copyright 2024

135

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Query: [video of celine dion
singing s’il suffisait d’aimer]

Explanation

This video is just what English (US) users are
looking for, even though the video is not in
English. The language of the LP is mostly
English (even though the video is in French), so
the Foreign Language flag is not needed.

Locale: English (US)
User Intent: Watch a video of
Celine Dion singing this song.

The query is for “Kasal, Kasali, Kasalo,” a
Filipino film. The LP is a clip from the movie in
Filipino (Tagalog), the language spoken in the
Philippines. It would be helpful for many
English (US) users who type the query, even
though it is not in English. Use your judgment
when deciding whether to assign the Foreign
Language flag.

Query: [kasal, kasali, kasalo]
Locale: English (US)
User Intent: Watch a trailer of
this Filipino film or find information
about it.

Copyright 2024

136

15.5

Did Not Load Flag

15.5.1 Using the Did Not Load Flag
Did Not Load is used to indicate technical problems with the webpage that prevent users from viewing any LP content.
Use the Did Not Load flag when:
●
●

The MC of the landing page is a web server or web application error message and there is no other content on
the page: no navigation links, no home link, no SC, and no Ads. See here for a Wikipedia page on different types
of error messages.
The landing page is completely blank: no MC, no SC, and no Ads.

Assign the Did Not Load flag based on the landing page, not the result block.
Here is an example of a Did Not Load landing page. You cannot tell that the landing page doesn’t load by looking at the
result block.
Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating, Flag

Explanation

This page displays a generic 404
message. There is no MC, SC, or
Ads on the page.

Query: [douglas instruments]
User Intent: Navigate to the
homepage of this website.

This result merits a FailsM rating
and the Did Not Load flag.

Here are screenshots of other types of landing pages that should be assigned the Did Not Load flag: DNL1, DNL2.
You should not use the Did Not Load flag for:
●
●
●

Malware warnings, such as “Warning – visiting this site may harm your computer!” (example).
Pages that have removed or expired MC (e.g., expired classified listing, removed social media post, products or
services unavailable).
Pages that are inaccessible because you need a subscription to view the MC.

15.5.2 Needs Met Rating and the Did Not Load Flag
All result blocks must be given a Needs Met rating. If the landing page truly doesn’t load, assign the Did Not Load flag
and rate the page FailsM. True Did Not Load pages are useless.
Sometimes the page partially loads or has an error message. Give Needs Met ratings based on how helpful the result is
for the query. Error messages can be customized by the website owner and are part of a well-functioning website.
Sometimes these pages are helpful for the query.
Note: If you are unable to evaluate the Page Quality rating of a Did Not Load result, you do not need to assign a Page
Quality rating and can leave the slider at N/A.

Copyright 2024

137

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating, Page Quality
Rating, Flags

Explanation
Needs Met: The MC has an error
message, but the LP has a lot of SC.
However, the page has no information
about boys pink snow shoes and is
unhelpful for the query.

Query: [boys pink snow
shoes]

Page Quality: This LP is on a well-known,
reputable merchant website. Despite the
error message, this page does a nice job
of explaining the issue and providing a
search box, including helpful search tips
and customer service information.

User Intent: Find
information about or
purchase boys’ snow
shoes.

Do not assign the Did Not Load flag.
Needs Met: In spite of the customized “No
results found” message on the LP, it has
links to all passages in the Bible, organized
by book. This is a very helpful result.

Query: [bible passages]

Page Quality: This page is a well-known,
reputable reference website. In addition to
links to all passages in the Bible, this error
page provides a search box as well as a
suggestion explaining how to refine
searches.

User Intent: Find
specific passages in the
Bible.

Do not assign the Did Not Load flag.

Query: [broadway
tickets]

Clicking on this result block leads to a
malware warning. You can assume that
the page is malicious without continuing to
the page. As discussed in Sections 4.5.5
and 13.6, you should assign a FailsM
Needs Met rating and Lowest Page
Quality rating.

User Intent: This is a
Know query or Do
query. The user wants
to search prices and/or
purchase tickets to a
Broadway show in New
York City.

Do not assign the Did Not Load flag.

This page cannot be reached because the
site's server IP address was not found.
There is no MC, SC, or Ads on the page.

Query: [paranormal
activity]
User Intent: Learn more
about the 2007 film
Paranormal Activity or
the associated film
series.

This result merits a FailsM Needs Met
rating, and no Page Quality rating is
required.
Assign the Did Not Load flag.

Copyright 2024

138

15.6 Additional Flags in Some Rating Tasks
Some rating tasks may ask you to identify Upsetting-Offensive and/or Not-for-Everyone results.
Mark content that may be upsetting or offensive from the perspective of a typical user in your locale as
Upsetting-Offensive, keeping in mind that people of all ages, genders, races, religions, and political affiliations use the
Internet to understand the world and other points of views.
Mark content that may be unpleasant or uncomfortable for some people in your locale (e.g., content that may not be
appropriate in a public space, professional environment, or school) as Not-for-Everyone.

Copyright 2024

139

16.0

Many Types of Helpful Results

Some queries may have many different possible meanings, or people may be looking for different things. Make sure to
give Highly Meets ratings to very helpful results for all reasonable interpretations and intents, including reasonable minor
interpretations.
●
●

●

Many queries have different possible meanings or interpretations. Don't assume – do query research! Results for
a diverse set of reasonable interpretations may be very helpful.
For any given query interpretation, different users may have different intents. For example, different people who
search for [avatar] with the movie in mind could be seeking different kinds of information about the movie. Some
may be seeking reviews, others could want to see what people are saying on social media, while others still could
be interested in the cast or ways to watch the movie, etc. Results that satisfy different reasonable intents may be
very helpful to different users.
It’s also possible for a single user to have many different intents for any given query interpretation. That is, one
person searching [avatar] could be broadly interested in the movie, and that person might want to browse reviews
and social media posts, see the cast, and find out how to watch the movie. A diverse set of results that satisfy
different reasonable intents may be very helpful to individual users, too!

Results of different types may be helpful for many kinds of queries, including queries with a single, clear interpretation or
intent. Consider what kinds of results are helpful for all queries you rate, including:
●
●
●
●
●

Different formats (e.g., text, video, image, audio)
Different experiences, perspectives and opinions (e.g., a personal blog or a social media post)
Different content depths (e.g., the 10 second summary video and the 1 hour deep dive documentary)
Different types of sites: corporate, not for profit, government, social media, forums, personal blogs, etc.
… and many more!

Make sure all types of very helpful results get a Highly Meets rating. Some queries may benefit from a wide variety of
helpful results:
●
●
●
●

16.1

Queries that seek experiences, opinions and perspectives, such as [should i get a dog], [what does love feel like]
Queries that are subjective, such as [best music to run to]
Exploration and browsing queries – users may need to see many different options, such as [ideas for bathroom
remodel], [black suit], [inexpensive engagement rings]
Queries with no single, right answer, such as [how to ask your boss for a raise]

Rating Queries with Both Website and Visit-in-Person Intent

Some queries have two possible strong intents:
1. Go to the website intent: in order to, for example, find out information, buy something online, make a reservation,
schedule an appointment, interact with customer support, or fulfill some other need that can be satisfied online
2. Visit-in-person intent: user wants to visit the store, business, etc. in person
For these queries, result blocks that only satisfy one intent should NOT get a Fully Meets rating.

Copyright 2024

140

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP

Needs Met Rating and Explanation

Query: [target]

The result block shows three popular
Target locations in Jacksonville, with
information that is especially helpful
for users who want to visit the store.
This fulfills the user intent to find a
nearby Target location.

User Location:
Jacksonville, Florida
User Intent: There are
two possible strong user
intents: most users
probably want to visit a
nearby Target location or
go to the website to shop
online, research
products, find prices, etc.

The result is very satisfying and fulfills
the user intent to shop online or
otherwise use the website.

Query: [dmv]
User Location:
Belmont, California

The result block shows two nearby
DMV locations, with information that is
especially helpful for users who want
to visit the locations. This fulfills the
user intent to find a nearby DMV
location.

User Intent: There are
two possible strong user
intents: most users
probably want to visit a
nearby DMV location or
go to the DMV website
to renew a license, pay a
fee, find some
information, etc.

The result is very satisfying and fulfills
the user intent to find information or
otherwise use the website (e.g., to
review a license, pay a fee).

Copyright 2024

141

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP

Needs Met Rating and Explanation

Query: [citibank]

The result block shows three nearby
Citibank locations in the user location
of Palo Alto. The information is
especially helpful for users who want
to visit the bank. This fulfills the user
intent to find a nearby Citibank
location.

User Location: Palo
Alto, California
User Intent: There are
two possible strong user
intents: most users
probably want to visit a
nearby Citibank location
or go to the website to
bank online.

The result is very satisfying and fulfills
the user intent to do online banking or
otherwise use the website.

17.0

Specificity of Queries and Landing Pages

Some queries are very general and some queries are specific. Here are some examples that compare levels of specificity
of English (US) queries:
Query

More Specific Query

Even More Specific Query

[chair]

[dining room chair]

[ikea “henriksdal” highback upholstered chair]

[library]

[harvard library]

[harvard anthropology library]

[interview questions]

[interview questions for teachers]

[practice interview questions used for teach for america]

[restaurants]

[chinese restaurants]

[takeout chinese restaurants in downtown Austin]

[coffee shops]

[starbucks]

[red rock coffee mountain view]

Results for specific queries are easier to rate on the Needs Met scale because we know more about what the user is
looking for. Giving a Needs Met rating for results for general queries can be difficult. As always, your rating is based on
how helpful the result is for the query, not the specificity fit.
When the query is a broad category, such as [cafes] [restaurants] [hotels] [books] [tourist attractions in paris] etc., popular
and prominent examples may be considered very helpful. Please do web research to help you understand what is
popular and prominent in different locations.

Copyright 2024

142

Query and User Intent

Result Block & LP, Needs Met & Page Quality Ratings

Explanation
Even though there are many options, a
page for an individual company that offers
different cards could be very helpful.
Needs Met: This LP is more specific than
the query, but could still be a very helpful
result because Visa is a popular credit card
company.
Page Quality: Visa is a credit card
company with high E-E-A-T that offers
services for credit cards, banking, etc. and
has a good reputation. High+ to Highest
is an appropriate rating.
Even though there are many options, a
page for an individual company that offers
different cards could be very helpful.
Needs Met: This LP is more specific than
the query, but could still be a very helpful
result because Discover is a popular credit
card company.

Query: [credit cards]

Page Quality: Discover is a company with
high E-E-A-T that offers services for credit
cards, banking, etc. with a good reputation.
High+ to Highest is an appropriate rating.

User Intent: Users are
probably looking to sign
up for a credit card
online, or want to
research credit cards
before signing up.

This page offers a list of top credit cards in
a variety of categories.
Needs Met: This LP fits the query. It would
be helpful for most users.
Page Quality: This website helps
consumers make money decisions. It has
a good reputation, high E-E-A-T, and has
been recommended by several major
newspapers. High is an appropriate
rating.
This page describes a credit card that
requires union membership.
Needs Met: Since the credit card requires
union membership, this result is an unlikely
minor interpretation for the broad query
about credit cards.
Page Quality: This company is an expert
on its own credit card, which is issued by
HSBC Bank, a financial services
organization with a good reputation and
high E-E-A-T. High is an appropriate
rating.

Copyright 2024

143

Query and User Intent

Result Block & LP, Needs Met & Page Quality Ratings

Explanation
This is a popular travel aggregator website,
and the hotel page on the site can help
users find hotels in the U.S. Users can
read reviews, compare hotels, or make a
reservation.
Needs Met: This LP fits the query. This is
a very helpful result.
Page Quality: Orbitz is a popular website
with high E-E-A-T and a good reputation.
High is an appropriate rating.
This is a very popular hotel chain with
hotels available in the majority of the U.S.
at many different price points.
Even though the list of possible hotel
chains is long, the homepage of an
individual chain that offers different prices,
features, and location options could be
very helpful.

Query: [hotels]

Needs Met: This LP is more specific than
the query, but could still be a very helpful
result because the Marriott is a popular
chain of hotels.

User Intent: Users are
probably planning a trip,
but this query is very
general and vague.

Page Quality: The Marriott website gives
information on Marriott hotels, a popular
chain of hotels. Marriott has a good
reputation and is an expert on Marriott
hotels, making the information on this page
highly authoritative. High+ to Highest is
an appropriate rating.
This is the webpage of the Marriott
Courtyard hotel in Emeryville, California.
Needs Met: The LP is too specific for the
query, but this is a well-known brand and
users can navigate to other Marriott hotels
from this page. This is a less helpful
result.
Page Quality: The Marriott website gives
information on Marriott hotels, a popular
chain of hotels. Marriott has a good
reputation and is an expert on Marriott
hotels, making the information on this page
highly authoritative. High+ to Highest is
an appropriate rating.

Copyright 2024

144

Query and User Intent

Result Block & LP, Needs Met & Page Quality Ratings

Explanation

Needs Met: The result block shows three
popular Target locations in Jacksonville,
with information that is especially helpful
for users who want to visit the store.

Query: [target]

No Page Quality rating
required

User Location:
Jacksonville, Florida

The LP is the Target website.

User Intent: Go to
target.com or find a
nearby Target store.

Needs Met: The result is very satisfying
for users that want to go to the website.
Page Quality: Target is a popular
shopping website in the U.S. with high
E-E-A-T and is trusted by users for online
purchases. High to High+ is an
appropriate rating.
The LP is the “store locator” page on the
Target website.
Needs Met: Even though the LP is more
specific than the query, this result would
be very helpful for users who issued this
query with the intent to find Target
locations to visit in person.
Page Quality: Target is the expert about
where its stores are located. This page is
the most authoritative page on this topic.
High+ to Highest is an appropriate rating.
The LP on the Target website is for a
specific type of women’s pants.

Query: [target]

Needs Met: The LP is much more
specific than the query and is an unlikely
to no chance interpretation of the query.

User Location:
Jacksonville, Florida
User Intent: Go to
target.com or find a
nearby Target store.

Page Quality: Target is a popular
shopping website in the U.S. with high
E-E-A-T and is trusted by users for online
purchases. High to High+ is an
appropriate rating.

Copyright 2024

145

18.0

Needs Met Rating and Freshness

Some queries demand very recent or “fresh” information. Users may be looking for “breaking news,” such as an important
event or natural disaster happening right now. Here are different types of queries demanding current/recent results.
Type of Query

Example Queries

Explanation
Assume users need the information right away.

“Breaking news” queries

[tornado], [tsunami]

Imagine someone who needs immediate weather information because
a big storm is coming. Information about last year's weather would
not be helpful.
Assume users are looking for the most recent or current information
about the event.

Recurring event queries,
such as elections, sports
events, TV shows,
conferences, etc.

[olympics], [american idol],
[redsox schedule], [tax forms],
[elections]

Current information
queries

[population of paris], [amount of
u.s. debt], [airfare from ny to sfo],
[next federal holiday]

Product queries

[iphone], [toyota camry], [windows Assume users are looking for information about the most recent
operating system]
model/version for these product queries.

For example, if the Olympics are happening right now, users
searching [olympics] want information about the current Olympics, not
results from years ago. If the next Olympics are a few months away,
users are probably interested in the
upcoming Olympics.
Assume users are looking for the most current information, such as
prices or airfare.

When a query demands recent content, only pages with current, recent, or updated content should get high Needs Met
ratings. For these queries, pages about past events, old product models and prices, outdated information, etc. are not
helpful. They should be considered “stale” and given low Needs Met ratings. In some cases, stale results are useless
and should be rated FailsM.
For some queries, there may be “newsy” or recent information user intent, as well as more “timeless” information user
intent. Users issuing queries for celebrities or politicians may be interested in biographical information, or users may be
looking for the latest news or gossip.
Freshness is generally less of a concern for Page Quality rating. “Stale” pages can have high Page Quality ratings. For
example, some highly reputable news websites maintain “archival” content. However, unmaintained/abandoned “old”
websites or unmaintained and inaccurate/misleading content is a reason for a low Page Quality rating.
Note: The date the page was created may be different from when the content was last updated or modified. When
content is updated, the page will sometimes show the date of the update, not the date the page was created. Some
websites always show the current date, regardless of when the content was last updated. If you are curious about the
content of a page, see here to try the “Wayback Machine” on the Internet Archive. Not all pages are available, but this
tool may help you understand how some pages were created and how their content has changed over time.

Copyright 2024

146

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating, Page Quality Rating

Query: [los angeles
traffic]

Explanation

This LP shows traffic conditions in
Los Angeles on August 7, 2012,
which is the day this example was
written.

User Location: Los
Angeles, California
User Intent: Users are
looking for current
information about traffic
conditions in Los
Angeles. Even pages
about traffic conditions
the day before would be
considered stale for the
query.

This LP shows traffic conditions in
Los Angeles on August 6, 2012.
It is stale and useless for the
query even though it is only one
day old.

This LP on the New York Times
website has information about the
most recent winner of this prize,
based on the date when this
example was written.

Query: [nobel peace
prize winner]
User Intent: Find the
name of the most recent
winner of this prize. This
is a Know Simple query.
At the time this example
was originally written,
2011 was the most
recent year that the
Nobel Peace Prize was
awarded.

This LP on the BBC website has
information about the 2006 winner
of this prize. The 2006 winners of
the prize may is an extremely
minor interpretation of the query,
so this page is stale for the query.

Copyright 2024

147

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating, Page Quality Rating

Explanation

Medline Plus is an authoritative
website that regularly updates its
content.

Query: [arthritis]
User Intent: Users are
looking for information
about this disease.
Because there is
ongoing research done
on treatments and cures
for most diseases, users
are probably looking for
authoritative, up-to-date
information on arthritis.

This 2006 article is extremely
stale for this medical query. For
this type of query, old medical
news is generally unhelpful and
potentially dangerous.

Query: [when was
franklin d roosevelt born]

This LP has the information users
are looking for. This query does
not require fresh results.

User Intent: Users want
to find this well
understood fact.

We couldn’t find a stale page for this query.

19.0

Misspelled and Mistyped Queries and Results

19.1

Misspelled and Mistyped Queries

N/A

You will notice that some queries are misspelled or mistyped. Here are some examples of queries that are obviously
misspelled:
Misspelled Query

Query Interpretation

[federal expres], English (US)

The only reasonable query interpretation is the company named Federal Express.

[new england patroits], English US)

The only reasonable interpretation is the NFL football team.

[byonce knowles], English (US)

The only reasonable interpretation is the famous singer/actress, Beyonce Knowles.

Some misspelled or mistyped queries are more difficult to interpret. Use your judgment and do query research.
For obviously misspelled or mistyped queries, you should base your rating on user intent, not necessarily on exactly how
the query has been spelled or typed by the user.
For queries that are not obviously misspelled or mistyped, you should respect the query as written, and assume users
are looking for results for the query as it is spelled.
Copyright 2024

148

19.2

Name Queries

Consider the query [john stuart], English (US). There is a very famous Jon Stewart, the comedian and former host of a
popular U.S. television show. However, we should not assume that the query [john stuart] has been misspelled. There
are many people named John Stuart. We will respect the query as written and assume the user is looking for someone
named “John Stuart.”
Query and Possible
User Intents

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating, Page Quality Rating

The page lists all
members of the LinkedIn
site named “Micheal
Jordan.” LinkedIn is a
very popular social
networking website for
professionals in the U.S.
This result would be very
helpful for users trying to
find information about
someone named
“Micheal Jordan.”

Query: [micheal jordan],
English (US)
User Intent: There are
many people named
“Micheal Jordan.”
Helpful results for more
prominent people named
Micheal Jordan should
receive higher ratings
than helpful results for
less prominent people
named Micheal Jordan.

This is a somewhat
helpful result for an
unlikely minor
interpretation of the
query.

Because Michael Jordan
is such a famous
athlete/celebrity, we will
consider Michael Jordan
to be an unlikely minor
interpretation.

20.0

Explanation

Non-Fully Meets Results for URL Queries

Raters sometimes ask the question, “For a well-formed working URL query, are the only acceptable Needs Met ratings for
a result either Fully Meets or Fails to Meet?” The answer is no. There can be other helpful results for URL queries.
Finding information about a website is a reasonable interpretation and intent for URL queries, as some users issue URL
queries to find information about a website, such as reviews or recent news. We recommended this to you as one method
of reputation research in the PQ guidelines. Real users do this too. Results that give reviews and reputation information
can be very helpful for a URL query.
However, websites that offer usage statistics about a website are not usually helpful results for URL queries. Most users
aren’t interested in this kind of information.

Copyright 2024

149

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating, Page Quality Rating

Explanation

This LP is the target of the query.

Online coupon codes are very
popular in the U.S. and this LP
(from a well-known coupon site)
displays codes for online
purchases on the Pottery Barn
website. Users may be interested
in coupon codes and this would
be very helpful for those shopping
online at potterybarn.com,
especially frequent shoppers.

Query:
[potterybarn.com]
User Intent: Pottery
Barn is a home
furnishing store. Users
may want to go to the
website, do research, or
find more information on
the company.

This LP (from a well-known
review site) has reviews of the
potterybarn.com website. Users
may be interested in reading
reviews when considering
whether to make purchases at
potterybarn.com, especially new
shoppers.

This LP is the target of the query.

Query:
[ratemyprofessors.com]
User Intent: Go to
www.ratemyprofessors.c
om, a website where
students can rate their
college professors.

This LP is an extensive
encyclopedia article for the
queried URL. It contains many
helpful sections, including
information detailing the rating
process, comparison with in-class
evaluations, criticism, etc. This is
a very helpful result for a
reasonable interpretation of the
query.

Copyright 2024

150

21.0

Product Queries: Importance of Browsing and Researching

Some product queries, such as [ipad reviews], have a clear information-seeking (Know) intent. Other product queries,
such as [buy ipad], have a clear purchase (Do) intent. And some product queries, such as [ipad store.apple.com], have a
clear navigation (Website) intent. However, most product queries don’t obviously specify one type of intent.
Keep in mind that many users enjoy browsing and visually exploring products online, similar to window shopping in real
life. Give high Needs Met ratings to results that allow users to research, browse, and decide what to purchase.
Users may not always plan to buy products online that they are browsing and researching, for example, cars or major
appliances. Even though the ultimate goal may be to purchase a product, many other activities may take place first:
researching the product (reviews, technical specifications), understanding the options that are available (brands, models,
pricing), viewing and considering various options (browsing), etc.
Important: Page Quality ratings for product results need extra care and attention.

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating, Page Quality Rating

Query: [high definition
tv]

Explanation
This LP has comprehensive
information about different types
of high definition TVs (plasma,
LCD, LED), as well as reviews
about many specific models. The
website is known for having
helpful reviews and information
about electronics.

User Intent: This query
doesn’t specify a size or
brand of TV. Users are
probably doing research
before making a
purchase.

Query: [girl toddler jeans
size 3T]

This is a helpful page for
browsing and shopping for toddler
girls jeans. There are many
options for jeans in size 3T. This
is a high quality store known for
selling jeans.

User Intent: The query
is very specific. The
user wants to browse
and find an item to buy.

Query: [cufflinks]

This LP has a large collection of
cufflinks from a very reputable
retailer. There are many options
and styles. This is a good page
for browsing. There are helpful
features at the top to choose
styles, price ranges, etc.

User Intent: Most users
probably want to find
different cufflink styles
and options to browse or
purchase.

Copyright 2024

151

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Query: [twist of fate ring pandora]

This result has a variety of
images of the ring, showing
different angles and materials.
Knowing what the ring looks like
is very helpful to users who are
researching the product and
browsing options that are
available.

User Intent: The user is looking
for a specific ring sold by the
Pandora brand and likely wants to
research the ring, see what it
looks like, find options to browse
or purchase, etc.

22.0

Explanation

Rating Visit-in-Person Intent Queries

When there is a user location for a visit-in-person intent query and a location has not been specified in the query itself,
such as [chinese restaurants] with a user location of Boston, MA, results in or near the user location are the most helpful.
How close is “near”? The type of business and/or entity should be taken into consideration when deciding if the distance
of the visit-in-person result is too far. For example, most people are not willing to travel very far for a gas station, coffee
shop, supermarket, etc. Those are types of businesses that most users expect to find nearby.
However, users might be willing to travel a little farther for certain kinds of visit-in-person results: doctors’ offices, libraries,
specific types of restaurants, public facilities like swimming pools, hiking trails in open spaces, etc. Sometimes users
may accept results that are even farther away, such as a very specialized medical clinic.
In other words, when we say users are looking for results “nearby,” the word “nearby” can mean different distances for
different queries. As always, please use your judgment.

Copyright 2024

152

22.1

Examples Where User Location Does (and Does Not) Matter

As previously mentioned, the user location may not always change our understanding of the query and user intent. Below
is one example where user location plays an important role, and two examples where user location does not matter.
Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Explanation
This result block displays the complete and
correct answer prominently in the result
block, in a way that is easy for users on
mobile devices to read.
Note: Assume that the result shows
current information for users at the time
this example was written. If you were
rating this task, you would need to verify
that the minimum wage rate in this result
block is accurate for the state of Kansas.

Query: [minimum wage
rate]
User Location: Wichita,
Kansas

This is the official Kansas state website
page on minimum wage for Kansas.

User Intent: Find out
what the current
minimum wage is.
Different states in the
U.S. have different
minimum wage rates.
Users might be
interested in the
minimum wage in their
state and how it
compares to other
places.

This LP has the minimum wage rates for
all states. It is on the official U.S.
Department of Labor website. Though it
takes some work to find the information
specific to Kansas, this is a very helpful
result for users seeking general
information about the minimum wage rate.

This is the official California state website
page on minimum wage for California.
Given the user location, this is an unhelpful
result.

Copyright 2024

153

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Explanation

The user is looking for a job at Amazon
and there is no information in this result
block that will help the user explore job
opportunities—it Fails to Meet the user
need.

Query: [amazon jobs]
User Location: Miami,
Florida
User Intent: Users are
looking for job
opportunities at Amazon.

This is Amazon’s official page on careers
and jobs at Amazon, where users can
search for currently open opportunities.
This page is exactly what the user is
looking for—it Fully Meets the user need.

Copyright 2024

154

23.0

Rating English Language Results in Non-English Locales

The following rating guidance is for raters in non-English locales. You may stop reading this section if your task
language is English, such as English (US), English (IN), English (NG), etc.
Your Needs Met ratings should reflect how helpful the result is for users in your locale. When the query is in the language
of your locale, assume that users want results in that language. We know that you can read English (you are reading this
document!), but you should only give high Needs Met ratings to English results if users in your locale would expect or
want them for a particular query. Unless requested by the query, English results should be considered useless if most
users in the locale can't read them.
However, rating can be more difficult when the query includes English names, words, etc., or when it's unclear whether
English results would be satisfying for a particular query. Please use your judgment and knowledge of your locale to
determine the appropriate rating.
Important: Please keep in mind that every locale will have unique considerations regarding the number and variety of
languages (such as official languages, regional languages, local dialects, etc.), writing systems, and keyboard input
languages commonly in use. While these guidelines may not include examples for your locale, it is important that you
represent users in your task location and culture in order to interpret the query and rate results. When in doubt, please
assume that users would prefer results in the task language unless the query clearly indicates otherwise.

Copyright 2024

155

23.1

Examples of English (and Non-English) Results in Non-English Locales

The section includes some examples using Hindi (IN) and Korean (KR) as the locales. In both cases, we cannot assume
that users in these locales—i.e., Hindi-speaking users in India, or Korean-speaking users in Korea—are able to read
English. Unless most users in the locale would be satisfied by English results for the query, we will consider them
unhelpful or even useless (FailsM).
Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Explanation

This Hindi language Wikipedia
page on राजा र व वमा is very
helpful for Hindi (IN) users.
Query: [राजा र व वमा]
Locale: Hindi (IN)
User Intent: The user wants to
find information
about राजा र व वमा, an Indian artist.

This English Wikipedia page
about राजा र व वमा has similar
content to the Hindi Wikipedia
page. Although there are some
helpful images on the page, few
Hindi users would be able to read
this page.

This Korean language Wikipedia
page on Barack Obama is very
helpful for Korean (KR) users.

버락 오바마]

Query: [

Locale: Korean (KR)

버락 오바마

User Intent:
is Barack
Obama in Korean, so the user
wants to find information about
Barack Obama.

This English Wikipedia page
about Barack Obama has similar
content to the Korean Wikipedia
page. Although there are some
helpful images on the page, very
few Korean users would be able
to read this page.

Copyright 2024

156

Here are two examples where the query includes proper nouns typed in Latin script, such as famous people, places, titles
of books or films, etc. For these queries, users would prefer to see results in the language of their locale.
Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Explanation
Although the query was typed in
Latin script, most Hindi users
would want to see information
about this person in Hindi. This
Hindi language Wikipedia page
on Cristiano Ronaldo is very
helpful for Hindi (IN) users.

Query: [ronaldo]
Locale: Hindi (IN)
User Intent: The user wants to
find information about Cristiano
Ronaldo, a famous footballer.

This English Wikipedia page
about Cristiano Ronaldo has
similar content to the Hindi
Wikipedia page. Although there
are some helpful images on the
page, few Hindi users would be
able to read this page.

Although the query was typed in
Latin script, most Korean users
would expect to see Korean
language reviews or Korean
stores for purchasing the movie.
This Korean result on a Korean
website is very helpful.

Query: [titanic 1997]
Locale: Korean (KR)
User Intent: The user wants to
purchase a DVD or find
information about the movie
“Titanic,” released in 1997.

This English language landing
page has helpful content for users
who can read English. Although
there are some helpful images on
the page, very few Korean users
would be able to read this page.

Copyright 2024

157

Here are two additional examples where the query was typed in Latin script (including some English words), yet users
would still prefer to see results in the language of their locale.
Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Explanation

Although the query includes some
English words, it is a Hindi query
typed in Latin script. Most Hindi
users would expect to see Hindi
results, like this helpful article.

Query: [mahila cricket sri lanka
ka match]
Locale: Hindi (IN)
User Intent: The user wants to
find information about a women’s
cricket match against Sri Lanka
on February 17, 2016.

This English language landing
page has helpful content for users
who can read English, but few
Hindi (IN) users would be able to
read this page.

Although the query was typed in
Latin script and includes some
English words, most Korean
users would expect to see the
Korean page on the Samsung
website. This Korean result is
very helpful.

Query: [samsung tablet]
Locale: Korean (KR)
User Intent: The user wants to
purchase, find information, or go
to the Galaxy tablet page on the
Samsung website.

This English language page on
the website of Samsung, the
company that makes this tablet,
has helpful content. Although
there are some helpful images on
the page, very few Korean users
would be able to read this page.

Copyright 2024

158

On the other hand, there may be queries where the needs of most users would actually be satisfied by English language
results, even if the query itself is typed in the task language.
For example, for queries about global businesses and organizations, users may expect or want to visit the English
language version of the business/organization's official website in some locales. Similarly, for queries seeking technical
information such as manufacturer part numbers, product specs, scientific or chemical formulas, etc., the answer to the
query may be typically expressed in the English language in some locales.
For these queries, users may expect or want to see English results in order to satisfy their need. Please use your
judgment and knowledge of your locale to determine the appropriate rating.
Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Explanation

Query: [हावड वेबसाइट]
This is the official website of
Harvard University. Even though
the query was typed in Hindi, this
English website is clearly what
users are looking for. Users
would be fully satisfied by this
result.

Locale: Hindi (IN)
User Intent: हावड वेबसाइट is
"Harvard website" in Hindi. Users
want to go to the official website
of Harvard University, which is a
well-known research university in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.

시스코 카탈리스트 스위치
복원하기]

This article comes from a blog
that contains lots of technical
information and troubleshooting
tips about IT operations and
programming. The landing page
provides step-by-step instructions
in Korean, along with the exact
commands in English that users
would need to type into a console
in order to recover the operating
system for the queried device.
This tutorial would be very helpful
and easy to follow for Korean
users who are familiar with this
type of networking device.

Query: [
IOS

Locale: Korean (KR)
User Intent: This Korean query
can be translated as "recovering
IOS on Cisco Catalyst switches".
The user wants to find out how to
restore the IOS operating system
on a Cisco Catalyst switch, which
is a specific brand/model of
computer networking device.

Copyright 2024

159

Finally, in some locales, English is one of the official languages or a commonly spoken language. In these locales,
English websites are easy to use and could be helpful, depending on the query.
For example, the Singapore government recognizes four official languages: English, Malay, Chinese, and Tamil, but
English is the first and most dominant language in Singapore.
Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Explanation

Query: [barack obama]
This Wikipedia page in English
about Obama would be very
helpful to users in Singapore.

Locale: English (SG)
User Intent: Find information
about Barack Obama.

24.0 Rating Dictionary and Encyclopedia Results for Different Queries
When assigning Needs Met ratings for dictionary and encyclopedia results, careful attention must be paid to the user
intent. Like all results, the helpfulness of dictionary and encyclopedia results depend on the query and user intent.
Dictionary and encyclopedia results may be topically relevant for many searches, but often these results are not helpful for
common words that most people in your rating locale already understand. Reserve high Needs Met ratings for dictionary
and encyclopedia results when the user intent for the query is likely "what is it" or "what does it mean" and the result is
helpful for users seeking that type of information.
Important: Think about how helpful it is to get dictionary or encyclopedia results for very common words. Often there
may be much more likely and reasonable intents. If you think most people know the meaning of the word and it is unlikely
that people would be looking for the definition, a Slightly Meets rating may be appropriate.

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Explanation

This is a vocabulary word often
studied in secondary school and
found on college entrance exams.
Many users may be looking for a
definition and would find this
dictionary result helpful.

Query: [obsequious]
User Intent: Users are probably
looking for the definition of this
vocabulary word.

Copyright 2024

160

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Query: [rainbow]

Explanation

Most users probably already
know what a rainbow is and
would not be looking for a
definition. Even if the user needs
help understanding the word,
images or a simple description
would be more helpful than this
dictionary result.

User Intent: This is a broad
query. Users could be looking for
many things, including images of
rainbows, brands or local
stores/organizations with
"rainbow" in their name, etc.

Query: [cafeteria]

Most users are looking for a place
to eat rather than general
information about cafeterias.
Even though this is an in-depth
encyclopedia article that matches
the topic of the query, this is not a
very helpful result.

User Location: Eugene, Oregon
User Intent: Most
English-speaking users in the US
are familiar with cafeterias. Users
are most likely looking for a place
to eat.

Query: [history of ATM machines]

The user wants to learn more
information about the history of
ATM machines. This
encyclopedia article includes an
extensive section on ATM
machine history. This is a very
helpful result.

User Intent: Find information
about the history of ATM
machines (e.g., the inventor,
when it was invented, its
evolution, etc.).

Copyright 2024

161

Query and User Intent

Result Block and LP, Needs Met Rating

Query: [atm near me]

Explanation

The user intent is to find a nearby
ATM machine. This encyclopedia
article fails to meet the need of
the user because it has no
information about nearby ATM
locations.

User Location: Livingston,
Wyoming
User Intent: Find ATMs near the
user location.

Copyright 2024

162

Appendix 1: Using the Evaluation Platform
25.0

Overview

The Evaluation Platform is the system you will use to acquire and rate tasks. You can access the Evaluation Platform by
going to this link: http://www.raterhub.com/evaluation/rater
As a Search Quality Rater, you will work on many different types of rating tasks. This section provides guidance on how
to use certain features of the Evaluation Platform that you will encounter frequently in Page Quality (PQ) and Needs Met
(NM) rating tasks. Some of these concepts may apply to other types of rating tasks as well.
Important: Many tasks that you receive will display project-specific instructions on the task page. You should always
follow these project-specific instructions when they are provided.

26.0

Acquiring Tasks

Here is a simplified screenshot of the task acquisition page on the Evaluation Platform. Please note that changes are
sometimes made to the appearance of this page, so it may not look exactly as it appears below.

A few notes about how to acquire tasks from this page:
●

rater@gmail.com: Make sure you are logged in to the account you used to sign up for the rating program.

●

Acquire if available: Click this button to acquire a new task.

●

Headphones or speakers required: This label indicates that the task requires headphones or speakers (for
example, to listen to an audio file).
Please note you may see other types of labels next to the button on the task acquisition page. Sometimes there
will be only one button, while other times you may see more than one button displayed to distinguish tasks with
different requirements. When there is more than one displayed, you may choose the one you want to acquire.

27.0

Rating Tasks Using the Rating Interface

Here is a general outline of the steps you should follow upon acquiring a task:
1. Read the instructions: Pay close attention to any project-specific instructions and examples if provided.
2. Fill out the task: Assign ratings to result blocks, provide comments, answer questions, etc. (as applicable).
3. Check your work: Verify that you entered your ratings as intended. Additionally, make sure that you provided a
response to all required questions.
4. Submit the task: Click the "Submit" button at the end of the page to submit the task and continue rating.
Alternatively, click "Submit and Stop Rating" to submit the task and return to the Evaluation Platform homepage.
Copyright 2024

163

Additionally, here are a few general things to keep in mind when rating tasks:
●

Result blocks are sometimes slow to load: Before assigning any ratings, please scan the task page to make
sure that all result blocks have loaded. Please note that result blocks may be slow to load and/or that the task
page may need reloading if there are empty result blocks. If the result blocks fail to load after refreshing a few
times, please release the task by following the instructions in Section 28.0 below.

●

Sometimes a side will not have any result blocks: If one side displays the message “This side did not generate
any results,” please do not release the task.

●

Do not refresh the task page after assigning ratings: If you refresh the page after assigning ratings, you will
lose them and they will have to be entered again.

28.0

Releasing Tasks

Most raters have difficulty rating some tasks now and then. Some queries are about highly technical topics (e.g.,
computer science or physics) or involve very specialized areas of interest (e.g., gaming or torrents).
You will report problems and release tasks using the “Report a Problem / Release this Task” button in the rating interface.
Here is what the “Report a Problem / Release this Task” button looks like:

Clicking the red button displays a menu with several reporting and release options:

Please note that changes are sometimes made to this menu, so it may not look exactly as it appears above.
Copyright 2024

164

In general, you should choose whichever option best describes your reason for releasing the task. If you are unsure,
please select the closest option, or contact your employer/company for further guidance.
Please leave a comment explaining the release when it makes sense to provide additional information, for example, when
you are releasing for a “technical problem.”
Here are some examples for the "lack expertise” and “technical problem” release options.
Lack expertise: These queries require specialized knowledge and may be difficult for some raters.
Query

General Query Topic

[cortisol secretion shows a blank pattern of secretion]

Scientific query

[minecraft gun and vehicles 1.1 mod installer]

Gaming query

[python pandas index like matrix]

Technical query

Technical problem: These result blocks have question marks and other characters where text should be.

Note: Based on the number and/or type of tasks that you release, you may be asked to provide additional details about
the reason for some of the releases.

Copyright 2024

165

29.0

Understanding the User Location on the Task Page

The location of the user should be inferred from the map provided. The map can help clarify where the user was
physically located when the query was issued.
On the map, the user location can be precise (blue dot), approximate (blue rectangle or circle), or missing altogether if the
user location is unknown. Here are some examples of what you might see at the top of the task:
A precise user location
is represented by a blue
dot (

Sometimes you will see
a shaded blue circle
around the blue dot. The
blue dot is the user’s
most likely location, but
it is possible they are
located anywhere within
the larger shaded blue
region.

).

The user can be located
anywhere within the
blue rectangle on the
map.

30.0

The map includes a
response pin, which is a
marker for a
visit-in-person result
block in the task. If
there are three
visit-in-person result
blocks in the task, there
should be three
response pins on the
map.

Reporting Duplicate Results in Tasks

In some rating tasks, you may be asked to determine whether any results are Duplicates (dupes). This section provides
guidance and examples of how to report duplicate results In Needs Met (NM) rating tasks.

30.1

Pre-Identified Duplicates

Some duplicate results are automatically detected and will be pre-identified for you. They will be annotated by the text
“Same as...” right below the slider and above the result block.
This is what these pre-identified dupes look like:
Left Side

Right Side

Please note: You cannot unselect dupes that have been automatically detected and pre-identified.
Copyright 2024

166

30.2

Rater-Identified Duplicates

You are also asked to help identify duplicate results that have not been automatically detected. Please mark two results
as dupes if they have essentially the same content on the main landing page AND you would not want a search engine to
return both results for the query.
Please note that in Needs Met rating and other query-based tasks, dupe identification is query-dependent.
●

Specific queries: For queries where the user is looking for a specific piece of content (such as queries looking for
song lyrics, queries looking for a specific article, etc.), obtaining that piece of content from different sites could
be helpful for users to verify the information, so they should not be rated as dupes.

●

Broad queries: If the query is broad, then returning the same piece of content is not what the user is looking for,
and hence those results should be flagged as dupes. Results may be considered dupes even if they have minor
content differences on the page (such as different ads, images, or related links).

Please identify dupes both within the same side and across sides. Even for cross-side results, you should still ask
yourself the question, “Would users want to see both results if they were returned by the same search engine?”
Note: If two result blocks have very different types of content or very different appearances, do not mark them as
duplicates even if they have the same landing page URL. For example, these two blocks should not be marked as
duplicates of each other.

Copyright 2024

167

30.3

Reporting Duplicate Results

When you notice that the results in two or more result blocks are duplicates, please click on the Select Dupe link at the
top of one of the results. The current result (the result you clicked on) will be highlighted in red at the top of the block.

You can then check results that are duplicates of the current result, and the checked results will be highlighted in yellow.
You must select the “Dupe of…” button.

The duplicate results that you checked will be annotated by "Dupe of..." text at the top of the block. After selecting all
dupes, click on the finish selecting dupes link to return to the normal rating mode. The link’s name will change back to
Select Dupes, and you will be able to report other sets of dupes, if there are any. If you change your mind, you can
always uncheck a result.
Dupes
QUERY: [choosing and installing a motorcycle battery]
URL 1: http://www.caimag.com/wordpress/2010/03/06/motorcycle-battery-how-to-choose-install
URL 2: http://www.articlesbase.com/motorcycles-articles/choosing-and-installing-a-motorcycle-battery-47798.html
Reason: Both of these results display the same article (which also appears on many other pages on the web). The only
real difference between the landing pages are the Ads displayed around the article. The query is broad enough that users
would not benefit by search engines returning more than one of these results.
Dupes
QUERY: [jason castro]
URL 1: http://www.myspace.com/jasoncastromusic
URL 2: http://www.myspace.com/jasoncastromusic?MyToken=503599bf-01cf-4427-bdf4-d63920c107f9
Reason: These two results have the same landing page, even though the URLs are different. Users would not benefit by
search engines returning both results.
Not Dupes
QUERY: [material girl lyrics]
URL 1: http://www.lyricsfreak.com/m/madonna/material+girl_20086925.html
URL 2: http://www.lyrics007.com/Madonna%20Lyrics/Material%20Girl%20Lyrics.html
Reason: Even though both pages display the lyrics to the song “Material Girl,” users would probably want to have the
option to visit both pages so that they could verify the accuracy of the lyrics. Users could benefit by search engines
returning more than one page with the lyrics to the song.

Copyright 2024

168

31.0

Simplified Needs Met Tasks

Some Needs Met rating tasks may not require ratings for all blocks. In these blocks, the Needs Met and Page Quality
rating scales will be greyed out and annotated with the text "No Rating Required".
The greyed-out results (sometimes referred to as "contextual results") are shown to help you understand the query and
inform your ratings. You can click on them when you feel like they will be helpful in determining your ratings.
Here is an example:

Copyright 2024

169

Appendix 2: Guideline Change Log
This guideline is updated regularly to remain relevant over time. Changes from the past two years (March 2022 - March
2024) are summarized below.
Date Published

Summary of Changes

March 2024

●

Updated characteristics of untrustworthy pages and added illustrative examples

November 2023

●

Simplified Needs Met scale definitions and added guidance for specific types of
Needs Met ratings; refreshed rating guidance and examples accordingly
Modernized examples by adding examples for popular platforms and video formats
and removing outdated and redundant examples
Minor changes throughout (expanded rating guidance for forum pages; updated
language, examples, and explanations for consistency across sections; fixed
typos; etc.)

●
●

December 2022

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
June 2022

●
●
●
●
●

Broadly refreshed concepts and rating criteria in 'Part 1: Page Quality Guideline'
to be applicable to all types of websites, webpages, and content creation models
Clarified guidance on 'Finding Who is Responsible for the Website and Who
Created the Content on the Page' for different webpage types
Added summary table with the top 'Page Quality Considerations' involved in PQ
rating, which carry through to each PQ rating section (Lowest to Highest)
Refined/expanded guidance on the following core pillars of Page Quality Rating:
○ 'Main Content Quality'
○ 'Reputation for Websites and Content Creators'
○ 'Experience, Expertise, Authoritativeness, and Trust (E-E-A-T)'
Reordered PQ rating sections from Lowest to Highest; streamlined transitions
between these sections; de-duped existing guidance and examples as appropriate
Added more guidance to sections on 'Pages with Error Messages or No MC' and
'Forums and Q&A Pages' for each level of the PQ rating scale
Added new 'Page Quality Rating FAQs' to clarify how Experience factors into PQ
rating; minor revisions to other FAQs for consistency
Reformatted lists of concepts and examples into tables (throughout/as appropriate)
Minor changes throughout (updated language, examples, and explanations for
consistency across sections; removed outdated examples; fixed typos; etc.)
Refreshed language to be aligned with the newly published Search Quality Rater
Guidelines: An Overview
Refined YMYL to focus on topics that require a high level of accuracy to prevent
significant harm; added a new table of examples and refreshed existing examples
Added clarifications to Low and Lowest Page Quality sections to emphasize that
the type and level of E-A-T depends on the purpose of the page, and that low
quality and harmful pages can occur on any type of website
Refactored language throughout to be applicable across all devices types
Minor changes throughout (updated screenshots; removed or updated outdated
examples and concepts; removed user location when irrelevant; etc.)

Copyright 2024

170

